Welcome to Expert Viewpoints: Working with
Backend JavaScript frameworks and Express. In this video, we will hear from
several cloud-native application development professionals discussing why they use
Express.js for building backend web applications. The Express framework for Node.js is a
great choice for building back-end web apps. It allows for very high-level expressive
declaration of REST API endpoints, which is great for productivity
as well as code readability. I believe it's the most popular web
framework for Node.js and the Express team. And the community surrounding it have created
a bunch of great middleware for things like parsing body content, authentication,
handling user sessions, and request logging. There are a number of reasons
to use Express nowadays. It's popular. There's a ton of packages for it. So it will give you the ability to create
something with only a few lines of code. Also Express is really great for
working with middlewares I find, which lets you pretty much do anything
you want with any requests coming in or any responses going out when
people are using your service. Also Express can be very, very
fast and very, very easy to use, so I find the development life cycle can be
very short if you know what you're doing. When it comes to using back-end JavaScript
frameworks, I am most familiar with Express.js. It's very prominent. And you can use it to create
applications that live on the Web. So Express.js abstracts a lot of low-level
code that you would be writing yourself if you were building your website or
web application on Node.js itself. So it makes me a more effective
programmer, or software developer. But more than that, Express is built on
certain best practices that you would have to follow anyways if you were
building all of this from scratch. It's good to rely on this community-driven open source framework that more likely than
not will do the right thing for me. By using Express.js for back-end development,
we are able to scale applications quickly. We can code both front end and back end with the
help of JavaScript easily by using Express.js. Express.js is supported with the Google V8
engine with the help of which you would be able to get higher performance without
any lag or error in the processing. It also supports the caching feature, so you would
not have to re-execute the codes again and again. Moreover, it will help web
pages to load faster than ever. You can also integrate several third-party
applications and services with Express.js. I was taught to use Express when
learning backend development. But I ended up not using it that
much because I was able to use fully managed services in the cloud to
handle a lot of those things for me. So, I could have an API gateway service
to handle the API requests for me. And then I would just need to write
the code for what to do in response.