Welcome to this course about the React JavaScript Framework. A recent stack overflow
survey reports that over 40% professional developer
responses rated React as their top web technology. The React front-end JavaScript
framework makes coding elegant and dynamic
user interfaces efficient and intuitive. Take this hands-on IBM
course designed for web and mobile application
developers if you want to skill up or start a
new career in this field. This course suits both
existing and new developers, as well as graduates seeking
to further establish client-side skills and IT leaders who manage
cloud-centric projects. In this course,
you will learn to use React to build
cross-platform, interactive, user-friendly,
client-side web applications. The framework uses a special
markup language called JSX, that is closely related to HTML. You'll build function and
class components and apply this modular coding method to handle data and user
events effectively. You'll use components to
manipulate the DOM and for form management with
hooks and the Redux library. You'll explore the usefulness
of hooks, states, props, and the Redux library in
conjunction with components to create robust interfaces
written with easy-to-read code. You will learn how to build client-side React applications through instructional videos, reinforced by hands-on labs. You assess your learning with
practice, graded quizzes, and strengthen your
knowledge with reference materials such as glossaries and
coding cheat sheets. A culminating practice and final project in the
last module provides you with the opportunity to apply your knowledge to build a
complete React application. You can readily share this
project in your portfolio from your GitHub account with potential employers to
showcase your talents. Each module has one or
more hands-on projects. These labs reinforce the
instructional videos by applying what you've learned in realistic project scenarios. Lab topics include building a content rating application with like and dislike
capabilities, an event planner, a
to-do list application, fetching data from a database and rendering e-commerce data. Then in the final module, you'll integrate all of the
skills learned throughout the course in a
culminating project in a shopping cart app. If you want more guidance
before the final project, you can develop an event
expense planner application. For you to succeed
in this course, you should have a working
knowledge of HTML and CSS. Additionally, you should know fundamental programming
concepts in a language such as
JavaScript or Python. You will use Git and GitHub
as your code repository. To learn these skills or about various ecosystems of
which React is a part, consider taking one of
the multiple programs containing this course if
you aren't already enrolled. These programs include IBM Full-Stack JavaScript Developer
Professional Certificate, IBM Full-Stack Software Developer Professional
Certificate, IBM front-end Developer
Professional Certificate, Cross Platform Mobile App Developer Professional
Certificate, JavaScript Programming with React Node and MongoDB Program, Cloud Application Development
Foundations Program. There is a lot to cover here. To get the most from this
course, watch each video, complete all hands-on labs, and check your learning
with each quiz. We're very happy to have
you with us as you start your developing
front-end applications with React journey. If you have any trouble with
any of the course material, please don't hesitate
to contact us in the discussion forum.
Let's get started!