[MUSIC] Welcome to comparing compiled and
interpreted programming languages. After watching this video,
you will be able compare interpreted and compiled programming languages and
discuss interpreted and compiled programming languages. How do developers choose
a programming language? Developers choose which programming
language is best to use depending on what they have the most experience with and
what they trust, what is best for their users, and
what is the most efficient to use. What are interpreted and
compiled programming languages? Interpreted programming languages are used
to create a scripted source code for smaller tasks. The source code goes
through an interpreter. The interpreter is built into
the operating system on a computer or on a web browser. Compiled programming languages
are used to create files. The files are executable files. They are then grouped in programs that
you can run on a computer or device. Interpreted programming languages
are also called script code or scripting, because they
are used to automate tasks. Interpreter programs read and execute the source code line by line
like someone would read a script. Each time the program runs, the source code needs to be executed
to receive the desired output, and source code written in one of the
interpreted programming languages runs on almost any operating system
with the right interpreter. For example, imagine you have a client
requesting information about webpage views for last month. Which type of programming language
would be the most appropriate and efficient to create a program for
this task? You would use one of the interpreted
programming languages to write code for a script. The script would retrieve
the webpage views data and then put it into a table for
the client to read. Compiled programming languages are also
called programming languages for short. They are used for more complex
programs that complete larger tasks, like running a spreadsheet
program on your computer. A compiled programming language is
used to write a larger program, usually installed on your
device as an executable file. Writing code in a compiled
language does take longer, but the payoff is that
the programs code runs faster, because compiled programs
are installed on the device. And once the program is coded, the compiled program is grouped
into one downloadable file. Remember that client who wanted
information about webpage views? Now, they want a spreadsheet program
to view and manage the data. A programmer could use the C programming
language to create a compiled program like Microsoft Excel. So what are the major differences between
interpreted programming languages and compiled programming languages? First, there's interpreted programming. These programs are available across
multiple platforms or in the cloud. The scripting languages
are easier to learn and use, and they're better for websites because
they tackle smaller, repeated processes. Then there's compiled programming. These programs are available to users
with the same operating system coded in the same language. However, compiled programming languages
are more difficult to learn and use, because they are larger programs with
more parts, and they're better for larger tasks, like running
the operating system on your computer. To better understand more
of the similarities and differences of programming languages,
let's take a look at some examples. A few of the most common programming
languages are C, C++ and C#. C is a compiled programming language. C is the original language,
and C++ and C# are variations. C and its variations
are case-sensitive languages. The C programming language
is the basis for Windows and other common operating systems, and
it takes more time to learn and use for coding but requires less
memory and the code runs faster. Another common programming
language is Java. It is a compiled programming language. It is also a case-sensitive,
object-oriented programming language. The Java virtual machine or JVM is
required to run the code written in Java. It is the primary programming language for
some operating systems, like the Android OS. And a benefit of Java is that
it is a cross-platform language, which means it runs the same code
on macOS, Windows, and Linux. Python is an example of
an interpreted programming language. It is also referred to
as a scripting language. Python is a popular general-use,
case-sensitive programming language. It is used with Windows, macOS, and
Linux operating systems, and with server-side web app code, and it requires
the Python engine to interpret code. JavaScript is another interpreted
programming language. It is a scripting language that runs
on the client side in web browsers. JavaScript is case sensitive. Simple scripts are run with HTML. Complex scripts are run in separate files. And while it sounds similar,
it shouldn't be confused with Java, the compiled programming language. Another example of a common
programming language is HTML. It is an interpreted programming language. HTML stands for Hypertext Markup Language. HTML is mostly case insensitive
with some exceptions, and it uses tags to format webpages
on client-side web browsers. In this video, you learned that interpreted programming
languages create source code that runs through an interpreter in your device's
operating system or on your web browser. Compiled programming languages create
executable files that are grouped in programs on your device. Compiled programming languages like C and
Java are used to write larger programs, like operating systems and
other executable files. And interpreted programming languages
like Python and HTML are used to write code that can complete repetitive tasks
within a web browser or a computer. [MUSIC]