Welcome to Introduction to
Programming Concepts – Part 1. After watching this video, you will be able to: Describe the purpose and use
of identifiers in programming. And Describe the purpose and use
of containers in programming. To fully understand software programming, there are some fundamental programming
concepts you need to know first. The first concepts you will
look at are identifiers. Software developers use an identifier
to reference a program component such as a stored value, a method, an interface, or
a class, by assigning a custom-named label to it. If the identifier stores data, then the data
values in the program can be one of two types: either a constant, or a variable. A constant is a data item whose value
does not change within a program. This could be a numerical constant
such as the mathematical value of Pi, or it could be a text string that remains
constant such as a player’s name within a game. Constants are also referred
to as ‘named constants.’ You assign a value to a
constant when you define it. For example, you might want it to refer to a
numerical value within your program such as Pi, or a cost price, or a rate of tax, and
then, rather than repeatedly retyping the same numerical value, you can just
declare a constant for that value instead, and name it something meaningful like
‘pi_value’, or ‘cost_price’, or ‘tax_rate’. There are a couple of major benefits
to using constants in your programs; one is for ease of readability in your code, and the other is that if the
specified value changes in the future, you only need to change it once on the constant, rather than finding every instance of that
numerical value within your code and changing it. The other type of identifier used
in programming is a variable. As the name suggests, this kind
of identifier is not constant; its value can change during
the program’s execution, such as a user entering
their age in an application or a high score in a game. Variables can be strings of text, numerical
values, or any other type of data. Using a variable as an identifier is a useful way
to refer to program items that are unknown to you, such as a username, a service,
or a file name for instance. If you don’t use a variable,
then you will need to hard code all the names and values in your program,
which is not considered best practice. Variables can be declared and assigned a data
type and initial value as they are defined, or you can decide not to assign an
initial value when you define a variable, and instead have the value assigned
later by instructions within the program. In addition to the identifier
data structures already discussed, there are also special kinds of identifiers that
can reference multiple elements in a program, and these are referred to as containers. Being able to specify multiple
elements means that you don’t have to create a variable for every individual element. This makes it faster and more efficient. For example, if you only want
to store six numerical integers, then you could argue that you could
just create six variables, one for each. But what if you need to store 1,000
integers or more? In such a case, defining 1,000 variables would obviously be an
unwieldly and inefficient programming technique, so in this case you would use a container. There are two types of containers to specify
multiple elements: arrays and vectors. The simplest of these container types is an array. In an array, a fixed number of
elements of the same type are stored in sequential order, starting from index zero. When you declare an array, you specify the data type
of the values it contains, such as an integer, or boolean, or a string, and then the maximum number
of elements it can contain. The syntax for declaring an array
is to specify the data type first, then the name of the array, then the
maximum size of the array in square braces. In contrast to arrays that have a fixed
size, vectors have a dynamic size, and they will automatically
resize themselves as you add elements to them or remove elements from them. For this reason, you may also see
them referred to as dynamic arrays. Because they are dynamic in nature, vectors
take up more memory space than arrays, and their elements also take a little
longer to access than elements in an array, as they are not stored in
sequential memory locations. The syntax for declaring a vector is to
specify the container type of the vector first, then specify the data type in angle brackets, then the name of the array. Note that because
it is a vector, you do not need to specify a maximum number of values it can contain
because the size is not fixed, it is dynamic. In this video, you learned that: Software developers use an identifier
to reference a program component. If an identifier stores data, then it
can either be a constant or a variable. A constant is a data item whose value
does not change within the program. A variable is not constant; it can
change during the program’s execution. In an array, a fixed number of
elements of the same type are stored in sequential order, starting from zero. And vectors have a dynamic size, and they automatically resize themselves
as elements are added or removed.