Welcome to “Query and Assembly
Programming Languages.” After watching this video, you will be able to: Compare high-level and
low-level programming languages. Describe query languages, and describe assembly languages. Let’s explore query and
assembly programming languages. But first, we need to
categorize programming languages into two levels – high-level and low-level. A high-level programming language is more sophisticated and uses the common English language to
make its code more understandable and to increase the speed of
coding and debugging programs. Examples of high-level programming
languages include query languages such as Structured Query Language (or SQL),
structured programming languages such as Pascal, and object-oriented programming
languages such as Python. In contrast, a low-level programming language uses a set of symbols to represent machine code. And examples of low-level programming
languages include assembly languages such as ARM, MIPS, and X86. A query is a request for
information from a database. The database handles the query and searches
its tables for the information requested and returns the results to the querying entity. When querying a database, it is important that
both the user application making the query and the database handling the query
are speaking the same language. In programming terms, writing
a query means using predefined and understandable instructions
to make the request to a database. This is achieved using programmatic code and
this is what we refer to as a query language. A query language may also be referred
to as a database query language. By far the most prevalent query language for
database queries and database management is SQL. However, there are other query languages available such as AQL, CQL, Datalog, and DMX. In addition to SQL databases, there is another type of database called
NoSQL, which stands for Not Only SQL. The key difference between these two types
of databases is their data structures. While SQL databases are relational and use structured, predefined, schemas, NoSQL databases are non-relational in nature and have dynamic schemas for unstructured data. A query language is predominantly
used to request data from a database or to create, read, update, and delete data
in a database. You will likely see the term CRUD used to refer to these last
four key database operations. Typically, a user enters a command to either make
a query or perform a CRUD operation using syntax that is understandable to the database
management system hosting the database. And a database typically consists
of structured tables made up of multiple rows and columns of data. When a user performs a query, the database retrieves the data from the
relevant rows and columns in the table and arranges it into some sort of order, ready to be returned and
presented in the query results. Database queries are either a select command, or an action command, such as CREATE,
INSERT, UPDATE, or a mixture of both. The term “statement” is more commonly
used to describe these commands. Select queries request data from a database, whereas action queries
manipulate data in a database. Query statements can also be used to
perform other administrative functions such as creating users and modifying permissions. This table lists some of the
most common SQL query statements. Here are some simple syntax
examples of common SQL statements. As mentioned earlier, assembly languages
are less sophisticated than query languages, structured programming languages, and
object-oriented programming languages. As an assembly language uses a simple
set of symbols to represent the 0s and 1s of machine code, it is categorized
as a low-level programming language. Assembly languages are closely tied to the
processor architecture from hardware manufacturers and therefore, each CPU type will
typically have its own assembly language. For this reason, there are a large number
of assembly languages in use today, which vary among hardware manufacturers. Assembly languages use a simple
readable format for their statements, and they are entered one line at a time, with one statement per line. Assembly language statements use
the standard format shown here. In this syntax all fields in
curly brackets { } are optional, and the statement has two main parts. The first part is the
instruction (or the mnemonic), and the second part includes the
parameters (or the operands). There may also be optional useful comments
added on the end of the statement. One other key difference with assembly languages is that they are translated using an assembler
instead of a compiler or interpreter, and one statement translates into
just one machine code instruction, as opposed to high-level languages
where one statement can be translated into multiple
machine code instructions. Assemblers translate assembly language
into machine code using mnemonics such as Input (INP), Output (OUT),
Load (LDA), Store (STA), and Add (ADD). The statements consist of opcodes that tell
the processor what to do with the data, and operands that tell the
processor where to find the data. In this video, you learned that: Query languages, structured programming languages, and object-oriented programming languages are
categorized as high-level programming languages. Assembly languages are categorized
as low-level programming languages. A query language is predominantly used to request data from a database or to
manipulate data in a database. The most prevalent query language
for database queries and database management is Structured Query Language (SQL). Select queries request data from a database, whereas action queries
manipulate data in a database. You also learned that: Assembly languages use a simple set of symbols
to represent the 0s and 1s of machine code. Assembly languages are closely tied to the processor architecture
from hardware manufacturers. Assembly languages are translated using an
assembler instead of a compiler or interpreter. And assembly language instructions have a one-to-one association with
their machine code counterpart.