A bare metal server is a single tenant, dedicated
physical server. In other words, it's dedicated
to a single customer. The Cloud provider actually
takes the physical server and plugs it into a rack in a
data center for customers. The Cloud provider
manages the server up to the operating
system or OS, which means if anything goes wrong with the hardware
or rack connection, they will fix or replace it, and then reboot the server. The customer is responsible
for administering and managing everything
else on the server. Bare metal servers are either pre-configured by the
Cloud provider to meet workload packages or they can be custom-configured as per
customer specifications. This includes the
processors, RAM, hard drives, specialized
components, and the OS. Customers can also install
their own OS and can install certain hypervisors that aren't available from the
Cloud provider, and thus create their own
virtual machines and farms. With bare metal servers, you can also add GPUs, which are designed for accelerating scientific
computation, data analytics, and rendering professional grade
virtualized graphics. Because bare metal servers
are physical machines, they take longer to provision
than virtual servers. Preconfigured builds
of bare metal can take 20-40 minutes to provision and custom builds can take around
three or four hours. But these provisioning times
can vary by Cloud provider. As bare metal servers
are dedicated for use by a single client
at any given time, they tend to be
more expensive than similarly sized
virtual machines. Also note that unlike
virtual servers, not all Cloud providers
provide bare metal servers. Since bare metal servers
are fully customizable, they can do what a
customer wants in the most demanding environments. Bare metal servers are
dedicated and intended for long-term
high-performance use in highly secure and
isolated environments. Clients have full
access and control of bare metal servers because there's no hypervisor required. As there is no sharing
underlying server hardware with other customers, bare metal servers fulfill the demanding needs of
high-performance computing or HPC, and data intense
applications that require minimal latency
related delays. These servers also excel in big data analytics applications and GPU-intensive solutions. Some workload examples that bare metal servers
satisfy are ERP, CRM, AI, deep learning,
and virtualization. If you use any applications
that require high degrees of security control or
apps that you've typically run in an
on-premises environment, then a bare metal server is a good alternative in the Cloud. When comparing bare metal
servers to virtual servers, some of the most
important considerations are found in customer need. Bare metal servers work best for CPU and I/O intensive workloads, excel with highest
performance and security, satisfy strict
compliance requirements, and offer complete flexibility, control, and transparency,
but come with added management and
operational overhead. Whereas virtual servers
are rapidly provisioned, provide an elastic and
scalable environment, and are low cost to use. However, since they share underlying hardware with
other virtual servers, they can be limited in
throughput and performance.