Cloud storage is where you save
data files in the cloud. Certain storage must be attached to a compute
node before the storage can be accessed, whereas other storage types can be
directly accessed either through the public Internet or a dedicated
private network connection. Cloud providers host, secure, manage, and
maintain the cloud storage and associated infrastructure to ensure you have
access to your data when you need it. Cloud storage services allow you to
scale your capacity as you need so you only pay for what you provision,
usually on a ‘per gigabyte’ basis. The cost of storage will
vary by type but in general, the faster the read / write speed of the
storage, the higher the per gigabyte cost. Cloud storage is available in
four main types – Direct Attached, File Storage, Block Storage and Object Storage. Direct Attached storage, sometimes
referred to as ‘Local Storage’, is storage which is presented directly to
a cloud-based server and is effectively either within the host server
chassis or within the same rack. This storage is fast and normally only
used to store a server’s operating system, although it can have other use cases. The main two reasons why direct attached
storage is not so great for other uses besides to store the operating system
is that it’s typically ‘Ephemeral’ – meaning that it only lasts as long at
the compute resource it’s attached to – it cannot be shared with other nodes
and while you can use RAID techniques, it’s not as resilient to failure
as other types of storage. File storage is typically presented
to compute nodes as ‘NFS Storage’. NFS stands for Network File System and
means that the storage is connected to compute nodes over a standard ethernet network. NFS-mounted storage is common-place but it
tends to be slower than either direct-attached storage or block storage because the
data travels over an ethernet network. It also tends to be lower cost than
either direct attached or block storage. One advantage of File Storage is that it can
be mounted or used on multiple servers at once. File-based storage is a simple, straightforward
approach to data storage and works well for organizing data in a hierarchical folder
structure, that desktop users are familiar with. Block storage is presented to compute nodes using
high-speed fibre connections, which means that read and write speeds are typically much faster
and reliable than with file storage, making block storage suitable for use with databases and
other applications where disk speed is important. You typically provision block storage
in ‘volumes’, which can then be mounted onto a compute node, which it then
effectively sees as another hard drive. Volumes can normally only be mounted
onto one compute node at a time. With both File and Block storage,
you may also hear the term ‘IOPS’. IOPS stands for ‘Input/Output Operations Per
Second’ and relates to the speed of the storage or to put it another way, how quickly data
can be read from or written to the storage. We’ll cover this in a little
more detail in a later video. Persistence is a term that is used when
provisioning File or Block storage and relates to what happens to the storage once the
compute node it is attached to is terminated. If the storage is set to ‘persist’ then it will
not be deleted along with the compute node, meaning that it and its data are preserved and
available to mount onto another compute node, though you will continue to pay for the storage. You can also, in some cases, set the storage
so that it is automatically deleted with the compute node that it is mounted onto – in this
case, as we know, it becomes Ephemeral Storage. Here, you will also stop paying
for the storage but you will lose any data unless it is backed up somewhere. There are several ways to backup data in the
cloud but one way to back up both File and Block storage is to take a Snapshot that is the
image of the storage, at a particular instant. Snapshots are usually fast to create (they don’t
actually write any data, or rather they create metadata), don’t require downtime and subsequent
snapshots record only changes to the data. They are great for returning storage to
the way it was at a particular snapshot, though note, they cannot be used
to recover individual files. The fourth kind of storage is Object storage. This is a different type of storage
in so much as it’s not attached to a compute node, rather it is accessed via an API. Of all the storage types, Object Storage is
by far the cheapest and also the slowest in terms of read and write speeds, but it
is infinite in size to the end user. Unlike File and Block storage where you provision a certain storage capacity
and it fills up over time, with Object Storage you can
keep adding files to it and it never fills up, you just pay for what you use. This makes Object Storage a fantastic repository
for all sorts of unstructured data types, large and small, including documents, video, logs, backups, data from IoT, application
binaries and virtual machine images. In the following videos, there will be more detailed information on the
different types of storage.