In this video, we will discuss Block Storage and how it compares to File Storage in the Cloud. Block storage breaks files
into chunks (or blocks) of data and Stores each block separately under a unique address. Like direct attached storage and file storage,
block storage also must be attached to a compute node before it can be utilized for your workloads. Block storage, like file storage, can be mounted
from remote storage appliances, making it extremely resilient to failure, and keeping
data far more secure in them, on account of encryption in transit, and encryption at rest
services, available on these appliances. Block storage is mounted as a volume to compute
nodes using a dedicated network of fibers, through which signals move at the speed of
light. These fiber optic networks are more expensive
to build than the ethernet ones which deliver File Storage, which is one reason why Block
Storage tends to have a higher price-point. However, since the traffic is moving faster
and with speed consistency, they are perfect for workloads that need low-latency storage
to work effectively. In terms of workloads, it is important to
note that unlike File Storage, which can be mounted onto 80 compute nodes or more, Block
Storage is normally mounted onto only one compute node at a time. Since these disks run at a consistent high
speed, they are perfect for workloads that need consistently fast storage, such as databases
and mail servers. Block storage is not suitable for workloads
where there needs to be some level of disk sharing between compute nodes. For block storage, as it is for file storage,
you need to take the IOPS capacity of the storage into account. Most cloud providers will allow you to specify
IOPS characteristics when you provision storage and, in some cases, adjust the IOPS of your
storage as you need, so if the requirements or usage behaviour of an application changes,
you can adjust accordingly. So, to summarise the commonalities and differences
between these two storage types: Block and File Storage is taken from appliances
which are maintained by the service provider. Both are normally highly available and resilient
and will often include data encryption at rest and in transit. File storage is attached to a compute node
using an ethernet network, so it is sometimes called Network attached or NFS Storage. File storage is very reliable, but the speed
of the connecting network can vary, based on load. Block storage is attached via a high-speed fiber
network, which is very reliable and consistent. File storage can be attached to multiple compute
nodes at once. Block storage can only be attached to one
node at a time. File storage is a good choice where file shares
are required, where workloads do not require lightning fast connectivity to storage, or
where cost is a factor. Block storage is a good choice when supporting
an application that needs consistent fast access to disk, such as databases. Remember to consider the IOPS requirements
of the application when provisioning either file or block storage. Hey guys, my name is Amy Blea. I'm on the offering team here with IBM cloud and today I want to talk to you about some traditional
types of storage: file and block storage. Kind of give you an overview of what they are and then give you some tips on how to decide
when to use one over the other. So, let's get started with block storage. Block storage is storage where data is
written in raw blocks on the storage and it's accessed by the servers that you
have through a storage area network. So, you have all of your servers, they can
either be on the same network with each other or a different network but they all connect through
the storage, through this storage area network. Now, some of the advantages of using
block storage is that block storage provides the lowest possible
latency for your applications, and you can also use it for those applications
that require high performance or lots of IOPS. Another thing you'll find with block storage
is that, in general, it is highly redundant. Most block storage services provide
a capability that's built-in, where your data is redundant across the volume, so that if, so there should be
either a volume should go down or a disk should go away and
you can recover your data from another place without having any
kind of impact to your application. Now, file storage is connected to your service
a little differently than block storage is. Everything is connected on the same network so you
have all of your files or your file share here. Those are all the files and they
can all be accessed on the same network by any of the servers on that network. So, it's network attached storage. File storage is highly scalable so you can have
multiple file shares on your network and have all of
your servers attached to that at one time. It's accessible to multiple runtimes. So, here in this illustration,
we have a single file share that has multiple servers accessing it all at once, and you can also have multiple simultaneous
reads and writes going to your file share all at one time without having to worry
about your data being overwritten. So, how do you know when is the
right time to choose either block storage or file storage
for your application? Well, first of all, you need to
think about what you're using it for. So, for example, let's say you have
a VMware configuration where you have multiple virtual servers with VMware
on them and you need boot volumes. Well, in that case, you would use block storage. If you have workloads such as transactional
databases or relational databases that require very low latency and high performance,
you would choose block storage In situations where you have a mix of
the structured and unstructured data, for example, a web hosting server
where you have both, you know, text files as well as media files,
then you would choose file storage. And then, if you have a collaborative
space where you need to have multiple users accessing it all at one time,
working together, doing, you know, reads and writes all at the same
time, you would choose file storage. So, like I mentioned in the beginning, block and file storage are very
traditional types of storage. They're not as flashy and shiny and
exciting as some of the new storage services that have entered the market, but they are still very relevant and useful for the different types of workloads that you
have, whether it's on premise or in the cloud. Thanks for checking out this video on the differences
between file and block storage with me today. If you have any questions or comments or ideas
for other videos, just put something in the comments below and then if you'd like to see
more videos like this in the future subscribe. In the next video, we'll start
to look at Object Storage.