A content delivery network, or CDN, is a distributed
server network that delivers temporarily stored, or cached, copies of
website content to users, based on the user's geographic location. A CDN stores this content in distributed
locations and reduces the distance between your website visitors, and your website server. In the rest of the video, we'll learn
more about Content Delivery Networks. Hi. I'm Ryan Sumner, I'm a Chief Network
Architect with IBM cloud, and today I'm going to help you answer: what
is a content delivery network? So, in short, a content delivery network, or
CDN, is a service that accelerates Internet content delivery. In other words, the main benefit of a
CDN is that it makes your website faster. Before I get into describing to you how it
accomplishes that, and some of the other benefits, first I want to talk to you about some
of the challenges that we have where we have users all around the world, but we
don't have servers all around the world, and the experience that those
users have due to that dynamic. So, I've got a simple diagram here
showing a server hosted down in Dallas. This is my website. And then I have users all around the world. So, in Sidney I might have five. In London I've got five. New York I might have ten. LA I might have ten. I've got 30 users around the world that are
accessing my server and my website down in Dallas. Let's kind of follow a set of
these users in their journey. Let's look at their users down in Sydney. They make a
request to the website. They've got an 8,600 mile hike to Dallas, and then an 8,600
mile hike back. The amount of time that that takes is usually measured and
measured in milliseconds, and just that round-trip might be about 170
milliseconds. For our users up in London, that might be about 100
milliseconds. Our users in New York City can probably experience about a 40
millisecond round-trip time. And over in LA, about 30. So as you can see, the
further you're away, the longer it takes ultimately, the
slower the website will be for you. So this is where the the CDN comes into
play, and this is how it actually accomplishes the increase in speed,
which is by reducing the amount of distance between the user and the
content, or the server providing the content. What it does by doing that is,
it places these content delivery network endpoints in as many locations
around the world as possible. And in our case, we're going
to assume we've got one in just about every location where our users exist. So now when the user in Sydney,
or London, or New York City, or LA tries to access some content, it's first
retrieved by the content delivery network service and then distributed
around the world. So we have a single request down to the Dallas server. It's now then distributed all around the world, and our users in London now
instead of going all the way to Dallas, they're able to retrieve that content
directly from their closest geographical location, drastically reducing the amount
of time that it takes to retrieve that content. As you can see here, it's very
basic how a CDN is able to provide the benefits to the end-user by reducing
the amount of time that it takes to deliver the service. But what you're not
seeing here, is an indirect benefit, is the reduction in the amount of traffic
that actually hits the Dallas server. So the indirect benefit is that you
actually see a reduction in the load, or a reduction in the amount of capacity
that you need in Dallas, to serve all these users. So another indirect benefit
because of there's this much less validity, and so much less stuff
happening in Dallas, because all these users are
having to make these trips. And I'm also not having to communicate with
with users so far away. The Dallas environment may also see an increase in
uptime. And then lastly, because the users are not really directly communicating
with the servers down in Dallas, you have the indirect benefit of an
increase in security through obscurity. It's pretty basic to understand how a
CDN works in the end to provide a better benefit to the end user.