[MUSIC] In this video, we're going to look more
closely at Object Storage, Data Tiers and Object Storage APIs. Object Storage buckets also have storage
tiers, or classes, associated with them and these tiers are based on how
frequently the data is accessed. A standard tier bucket is where you
would store objects that are frequently accessed. This tier tends to have the highest
per gigabyte cost associated with it. A vault or archive tier is where you
might store documents that are only accessed perhaps only once or
twice a month, or less, and this will be offered at
a lower storage cost. Whereas there may also be cold vault tier,
where you would store data that is typically accessed only once or
twice a year. This storage often costs just a fraction
of a US cent per gigabyte per month. Often, you can also set up
automatic archiving rules for your data, meaning that if
an object isn't accessed for a period of time, it will automatically
be moved to a cheaper storage tier. The rule uses some of the object's
metadata to determine when it should be archived. Note that, Object Storage does
not come with IOPS options. Object Storage tends to be very slow in
comparison with file or block storage, where downloads typically takes
seconds if not longer to complete. Where providers offer cold vault buckets,
data retrieval from these tiers can sometimes even take hours
because the storage is kept offline. If your application needs
fast access to files, then object storage may
not be a good option. We've mentioned that object storage
is priced per gigabyte used, but there can also be other costs
related to retrieval of the data. These costs are similarly low, but
access charges can be higher for data that is in a vault or
cold vault tiers, so it is important to ensure that the data is in the correct
tier based on its frequency of access. Object Storage does not need to
be attached to a compute node for you to access it, rather you access object storage through
an application program interface, or API. The most common API for
object storage is called the S3 API, which is a standard based on the S3
object storage offered by AWS. Many providers offer APIs
to their object storage, which is S3 compatible, which is useful,
because it means developers can write code which is able to access multiple
vendors object storage. The API itself is an HTTP based
RESTful API, or RESTful web service. The API call allows applications to
manage object storage and buckets, as well as put, upload, or
get download objects to and from them. Object Storage is not just for
new applications, but can be used to meet requirements for
existing ones. It can also be used as an effective
solution for backup and disaster recovery as a replacement for
off-site tape based solutions, reducing the time to restore data. Many backup packages now include
the ability to backup data up into the Cloud using object storage. Object Storage is more efficient
than tape backup solutions, which require tapes that need to
be physically loaded into, and removed from, tape drives and moved
off-site for geographical redundancy. So, to summarize what we
have learned in this lesson, object storage has different tiers
with different charges for each. Some are based on the frequency at
which the objects inside are accessed. Object Storage is priced per gigabyte of
storage used per month plus some charges for data retrieval. Object Storage is much cheaper
than file or block storage. Object Storage is very slow in
comparison with file and block storage. You can often create rules
which allow the automatic archiving of objects to cheaper tiers
when they are in frequently accessed. Object Storage is accessed using an API. Many Object Storage providers have an S3
compatible API which means developers can create code that will work against
multiple vendor Object Storage solutions. Object Storage in the Cloud
offers an effective Backup and Disaster Recovery Solution. In the next video, we will be
covering Content Delivery Network, or CDN, which is driven by Object Storage. [MUSIC]