In this video, we're
going to start to understand what
object storage is, how data is stored
in object storage, and how it differs from the more traditional
storage types, such as file and block storage. The first thing to note about object storage is
that you do not connect it to a
particular compute node in order to use it. Instead, you provision an object storage
service instance and use an API or application programming
interface to upload, download, and manage your data. This means you can directly use object storage with
anything that you can call an API and you don't need an underlying
compute node. The second thing to note about object storage is that it's less expensive than other
Cloud storage options. Its per gigabyte cost is typically a couple of
US cents per month, and in some cases even less, depending on
the storage tier used-- more on storage tiers later. The third and possibly most
important thing to note about object storage is that
it's effectively infinite. With file and block storage, you specify the size
of the storage you want in gigabytes or terabytes, and then pay a fee based on
the size you provisioned. With object storage you just
consume the storage you need and pay per gigabyte
cost for what you use. You can keep uploading files and the storage
will never run out. When would you use
object storage? Well, object storage
is great for storing large amounts
of unstructured data. By unstructured, this means
that the data is not stored in any kind of
hierarchical folder or directory structure. Object storage uses buckets, and objects are stored within these buckets in a
structurally flat way. A bucket is a bit like a folder, in the sense that you can give them meaningful names and, of course, have
different buckets for different object types. But you cannot place a
bucket with in a bucket. When an object is
placed in a bucket, it also has some metadata. Data about the data added to it, such as an object ID. This metadata helps
applications to both locate and
access the object, as well as provide
information on the time that the data was stored
or last accessed. When you create a bucket, you don't need to provide or define any sizing information. The bucket will just hold the data that you
place inside it. And the service provider
ensures that there is sufficient storage
capacity available. Buckets can hold as little
as a few bytes of data, right up to multiple petabytes
and you can build up the amount of data stored as slowly or quickly as you'd like, as well as shrink
it back down again. The service provider also takes care of
resilience and making sure that the object
storage solution is highly available. Some Cloud providers
offer different types of buckets within different
levels of resilience. For example, they offer
buckets which are resilient, but the data is only
stored in one data center. This is a good option where
data needs to reside in a particular geographical
location or in situations where high
availability is less of an issue. They will then offer
buckets which are highly available across regions where the data is stored
multiple times in different data centers or
zones in the same region, or even in multiple regions. These options usually cost more, but they provide both
the highest level of resilience as well as
availability for your data. Object storage has a very
flat storage structure, which we'll explain
in the next lesson. This data can be anything from text files to audio files
and video files from IoT data to virtual
machine images from backup files
to data archives. Pretty much any data
which is static and where fast read and write
speeds are not necessary, would make a good fit
for objects storage. Object storage would, however, not be suitable for
running operating systems, nor applications
such as databases or anything else where the
contents of the files changes. To summarize what we have
learned in this lesson, object storage is used to store files or objects
which are static. The data that you can store
using object storage can be anything from text files
to audio and video files, from IoT data to
virtual machine images, from backup files
to data archives. You cannot run
operating systems or other applications such as databases using objects storage. Objects are stored in buckets. You can have multiple
buckets but you cannot place buckets
within buckets. You do not need to specify
a size for a bucket. You can just use as little or
as much space as you need. Many providers offer
different types of buckets with different
charges for each. Some are based on resilience
and availability, while others are based
on the frequency at which the objects
inside are accessed. In the next video, we'll be diving into object storage data tiers
and object storage APIs.