After choosing the cloud service model and
the cloud type offered by vendors, customers need to plan the infrastructure architecture. The infrastructure layer is the foundation
of the cloud. This layer consists of physical resources
that are housed in Regions, Zones and Data Centers. A Cloud provider’s IT environment is typically
distributed across many Regions around the world. A cloud Region, is a geographic area or location
where a Cloud provider’s infrastructure is clustered, and may have names like NA South
or US East. The cloud Regions are isolated from each other
so that if one Region was impacted by a natural disaster like an Earthquake, the Cloud operations
in other Regions would keep running. Each Cloud Region can have multiple Zones
(or Availability Zones or AZ for short), which are typically distinct Data Centers with their
own power, cooling and networking resources. These Zones can have names like DAL-09 or
us-east-1. The isolation of zones improves the cloud’s
overall fault tolerance, decreases latency, and avoids creating a single shared point
of failure. The Availability Zones (and DataCenters within
them) are connected to other AZs and regions, private datacenters and the Internet using
very high bandwidth network connectivity. A cloud Data center is a huge room or a warehouse
containing cloud infrastructure. These data centers contain pods and racks
or standardized containers of computing resources such as servers, as well as storage, and networking
equipment - virtually everything that a physical IT environment has. Computing Resources:
Cloud providers offer several compute options – Virtual Servers, Bare Metal Servers, and
“Serverless” computing resources. Most of the servers in a cloud datacenter
run hypervisors to create virtual servers or virtual machines (also called VMs for short),
that are software-based computers, based on virtualization technologies. Other servers in the racks are bare metal
servers that are physical servers that aren’t virtualized. Customers can provision VMs and Bare Metals
servers as and when they need them and run their workloads on them. Cloud users can also run their workloads on
serverless computing resources, which are an abstraction layer on top of virtual machines. We will talk about all three compute options
in greater detail in subsequent videos. Storage:
Information and data can consist of files, code, documents, images, videos, backups,
snapshots, and databases and can be stored in many different types of storage options
on the Cloud. Bare Metal Servers and Virtual Servers are
provisioned with default storage in local drives.. Networking:
Networking infrastructure in a cloud datacenter includes traditional networking hardware like
routers and switches, but more importantly for users of the Cloud, the Cloud providers
have Software Defined Networking (or SDN) options where certain networking resources
are virtualized or made available programmatically, through APIs. This allows for easier network provisioning,
configuration, and management in the cloud. When servers in the cloud are provisioned,
you need to setup their public and private network interfaces. The public network interfaces, as the name
suggests, connect the servers to the public internet, whereas the private ones provide
connectivity to your other cloud resources and help keep them secure. As in the physical IT world, network interfaces
in the cloud need to have IP addresses and subnets either assigned automatically or configured. In a cloud environment it is even more important
to configure which network traffic and users can access your resources, which can be done
by setting up Security Groups and Access Control Lists (or ACLs). For further security and isolation of your
resources in the cloud, most Cloud providers provide Virtual Local Area Networks (VLANs),
Virtual Private Clouds (VPCs), and Virtual Private Networks (VPNs). Some of the traditional hardware appliances
such as firewalls, load balancers, gateways and traffic analyzers can also be virtualized
and made available as services in the cloud. Another networking capability provided by
the Cloud Providers is Content Delivery Networks or CDNs, that distribute content to multiple
points throughout the world so users accessing the content can access it more quickly by
getting it from a point nearest to them. We will learn more about some of these cloud
networking options and terminology in subsequent videos. Cloud infrastructure is constantly advancing
and improving. In the next video, we explain virtualization
and virtual machines.