[MUSIC] As Cloud environments gain greater
adoption and digital data invites rapidly increasing cybersecurity threats, building
secure networks on the Cloud is crucial. Let's look at how we can build
a secure Cloud networking presence. As one might expect, the notion of
building a Cloud network is not much different from deploying a network
in an on-premises data center. The main difference stems from the fact
that in the Cloud we use logical instances of networking elements as
opposed to physical devices. For example,
network interface controllers or NICs would be represented by
vNICs in cloud environments. In the Cloud, networking functions
are delivered as a service rather than in the form of rack-mounted devices. To create a network in the Cloud, one
starts by defining the size of the network or the IP address range that establishes
the boundaries or the Cloud network. Cloud networks are deployed in networking
spaces that are logically separated segments of the networks using options
including Virtual, Private Cloud, or VPC that in turn can be divided
into smaller segments called subnets. Logically segmented cloud networks are
private carveout of the cloud that offer customers the security of private clouds
and the scalability of public clouds. Cloud resources such as VMs or
Virtual Server Instances, VSIs, storage, network connectivity, and
load balancers are deployed into subnets. Using subnets allows users to deploy
enterprise applications using the same multi-tier concepts used
in on-premises environments. Subnets are also the main area where
security is implemented in the Cloud. Every subnet is protected
by access control lists or ACLs that serve as
a subnet-level firewall. Within the subnet, one could create
security groups that provide security at the instance level,
such as VSIs. Once you build a subnet,
then it is time to add some VSIs and storage to it so
that you could run your applications. Let's say you have a three tier
application that requires Web access VSIs, application tier VSIs,
and backend database VSIs. In this case, we would place the
web-facing VSIs into one security group, the application VSIs in
a second security group, while the database VSIs in
a third security group. It goes without saying that the Web
facing VSIs need Internet access. A public gateway instance is added to
the network to enable users access to the application in the Internet tier. While public gateways are great for
Internet access to the Cloud, enterprises are interested in extending
their own on-premises resources to the Cloud by securely connecting them
using Virtual Private Networks or VPNs. When building many subnets and
deploying several workloads, it becomes necessary to ensure that
applications continue to be responsive. That is achieved with load balancers that
ensure availability of bandwidth for the different applications. Enterprises with hybrid Cloud environment
find using dedicated high speed connections between clouds and
on premise resources is a more secured and more efficient way than public
connectivity solutions. Some cloud service providers
offer such connectivity, such as IBM Cloud and its Direct Link
solution that enables extending on-premises resources
to the Cloud as needed. Building a Cloud Network entails
creating a set of logical constructs that deliver networking functionality that
is akin to the data center networks that all IT professionals have come to rely
on for securing their environments and ensuring high-performing
business applications. [MUSIC]