(Music) Hi. My name is Kaleigh Bovey,
with the IBM Cloud team and today we're going to be talking
about virtualization. As you know virtualization
is a fairly old technology, but it's still super relevant to building
our cloud computing strategy today. So, first off, what is virtualization? Simply put, virtualization is the process
of creating a software based, or virtual, version of something, whether that be compute, storage,
networking, servers, or applications and what makes virtualization feasible,
is something called the hypervisor. We're going to write that here. What a hypervisor is, is it's
simply a piece of software that runs above the physical server, or host. And there are a couple different types
of hypervisors out there. What they do is essentially pull the resources from the physical server and allocate them
to your virtual environments. There are two main types of
hypervisors out there. One being Type 1. Very simple to remember.
And 2, you guessed it, Type 2. So let's start with Type 1. A Type 1 hypervisor is a hypervisor that is installed directly
on top of the physical server. They're also called bare-metal hypervisors.
So we'll write that up here. Just so you can remember. These are the most frequently type of used
hypervisors and they're most secure, they lower the latency, and these are the ones
that you'll see in the market the most. Some examples would be VMware, ESXi, or
Microsoft Hyper-V, or even open-source KVM. The other type of hypervisor is a
Type 2 hypervisor, over here. And what makes these different
is that there is a layer of host OS that sits between the physical server
and the hypervisor. So, by that nature they are also called, Hosted. These are a lot less frequent.
They're mostly used for end-user virtualization and you might see some
in the market that are called: Oracle, VirtualBox, or VMware Workstation. Again, they're a lot less frequent.
They're a bit more... They have a higher latency
than a Type 1 hypervisor. So once you have your hypervisor installed, you can build virtual environments,
or virtual machines, or simply put, VMs. So let's spin up some environments. So, what makes a VM a VM? A VM is
simply a software based computer. They're run like a physical computer.
They have an operating system and applications, and they're completely independent of one another
but you can run multiple of them on a hypervisor and the hypervisor manages
the resources that are allocated to these virtual environments
from the physical server. So, because they're independent you can run different operating systems
on different virtual machines. You could run Windows here, or Linux here,
or UNIX here for example. Because they're independent
they're also extremely portable. You can move a virtual machine from
one hypervisor to another hypervisor on a completely different machine
almost instantaneously, which gives you a lot of flexibility and
a lot of portability within your environment. So looking at all of this - this is
the core virtualization as a process. So let's talk about a couple key benefits
that you want to take away from this. 1) Cost savings. When you think about this and the fact that you
can run multiple virtual environments from one piece of infrastructure, means that you can drastically reduce
your physical infrastructure footprint. This is consolidation at its core, and the fact that you don't have to
maintain nearly as many servers, run as much electricity, save on
maintenance costs, means that you save on your bottom line at the end of the day. 2) Would be agility and speed. Like I said, spinning up a virtual machine
is relatively easy and quick - a lot more simple than provisioning an
entire new environment for your developers if they say they want to spin up a new environment
so that they can run a dev test scenario. Whatever it might be, virtualization
makes that process a lot simpler and quicker and 3) lowers your downtime. So, let's say that this host goes out unexpectedly. The fact that you can move virtual machines
from one hypervisor to another, on a different physical server, means that
you have a great backup plan in place right? So, if this host goes down
you can simply move your VMs very quickly to another hypervisor
on a machine that is working. Virtualization and VMs are at the center of
cloud computing and provide many benefits. In the next video, we will discuss
the types of virtual machines.