[MUSIC] Welcome to essential concepts of Redux. After watching this video, you will be able discuss Redux concepts
such as action, store, and reducer. Describe the principles
behind Redux architecture. Explain the terms dispatching and
action creators. Relate the concepts action, store, and
reducer to a user interface example. Redux offers a centralized state
management system for your application. When you use Redux, you do not
need to manage component states. Redux manages the states
at the application level, not the individual components. Using this approach, you should treat
the component properties as immutable. You create new state objects rather
than changing existing ones. Redux uses actions, stores, and reducers
when updating component properties. Lets briefly discuss each and
then discuss them in more detail later. The store contains all the current
states of the application. You call an action object to indicate
the need for a state update, but the action does not specify
how to change that state. Instead of specifying
the how in the action, you write a reducer function to how
to update the state in the store. Before going into more detail,
consider an e-commerce application cart. From the user's point of view, they expect
the total number of items in the cart to increase by the number of items they add
to the cart after selecting add to cart. Let's see what happens behind the scenes
regarding actions, the store, and reducers to make this work correctly. When the user selects add to cart,
it starts an action creator function. Lets say you name the function addItem. The addItem function is an action creator. It creates and returns an action object. Your component sends that action object
to the store using a dispatch function. This entire process is called
dispatching an action. The store contains all application states,
including the state of the cart. Part of the cart's data includes
its current number of items. The store itself uses a data structure
called a state tree to store and manage the application states. The tree is a JavaScript object with
methods for managing its properties. The action object describes the action
that needs to be performed. It contains properties including type and
payload. The store uses the actions type property
to determine which reducer should process the action. The payload property stores other
data needed to update the state. In our example of adding items to a cart, the payload would include
the cart's increased value. The store then calls the reducer,
which tells it how to change the state. When the store receives the action, it calls the appropriate reducer and
passes both the action object and the state object to the reducer
function to calculate the new state. Note that the reducer is a pure function,
meaning it always returns the same output when given the same inputs, it has
no side effects or mutating functions. Using reducers may seem like an extra
step in the Redux architecture. However, this architecture enables
a predictable state container by ensuring explicit state changes. It makes reading the code easier when you
need to track state changes by separating the action description and
the specifics of how the state changes. In turn, this makes debugging easier and
helps simplify code maintenance. In this video, you learned that the action object describes
the action that needs to be performed. The store maintains all of
the application's current states. A reducer tells the store
how to change the state. The dispatching action process uses
an action creator function, which returns the action object and sends the object
to the store using a dispatch function. The Redux architecture makes states
predictable because changes are explicit through actions, reducers,
and the application store. [MUSIC]