Welcome to Implementing Forms. After watching this video, you'll be able to explain
the purpose of forms. Compare and contrast controlled and uncontrolled
form components. Summarize the benefits of the React hook library
for form development. Forms allow users to interact
with data on a web page. For example, you would use
forms for user registration, surveys, or when a
user places an order. Areas in which users interact with the data
are called fields. There are many types of fields, such as text boxes, drop-down menus, radio
buttons, and checkboxes. When taking input from
a user through a form, you also need to handle the submission logic
and validate the data. In React, you handle these
capabilities with components. You generally
capture the input on the client side and temporarily store it in
the component state. You do not submit
the information directly from the
form to a server. HTML provides some form
capabilities such as input, textarea, and select. The browser manages the
state of these elements. In React, you use the
component state to store input and make updates using the component's
setState method. In addition to providing the data fields the
users interact with, your form must also
provide submission logic that tells the application when to accept the user's input. For example, you would
not want to accept a user's password until
they click a Submit button. This provides some degree of
assurance the user input the password they intended. Regarding validation, when
users create passwords, applications often
require the user to type the password twice, as well as have rules
for the password, such as a minimum
number of characters. Generally, form
validation requires the following tasks:
getting the input, managing and updating
the form state, validating input values, displaying appropriate
error messages. React form components can be
controlled or uncontrolled. Let's discuss the difference at a high level and then examine
each one more closely. With uncontrolled
components, you use react to place the value on the page and the browser keeps
track of the rest. With controlled components, the React state
manages the form data. This means that you must explicitly write
the code to create the state and tell it how to update when the data changes. Although uncontrolled
components use less code and are
easier to develop, ultimately, they
are less robust. As the name suggests, you have little control over the former and more over the latter. When you write
uncontrolled components to handle user input, the browser handles
the form elements. Similar to working with
HTML form elements, the values in an
uncontrolled component are stored in the
DOM's input node. Inputs get updated
automatically. When writing an
uncontrolled component, you write a ref function to get the input values from the DOM. You do not need to write event handlers when the state changes. If you decide to use
controlled components, you explicitly handle
all state changes, such as responding
to a key press, a mouse click, or a tap. Rather than the DOM
handling the input, you tell the component
where to store the data and return any values
to display as a result. You write functions to
handle data getting passed into the component
with onChange events, such as tapping a specific
location of the screen. Often, you will use the setState method to
save the updated input. You also write the
event handlers to update the state
of the variables. This simple controlled component handles a registration form. The component implements
the useState hook to track the state of
the email address. To ensure that the email address is updated when the
form is submitted, you must add an
input element with value and onChange
attributes to it. When the user taps
the Submit button, the component writes the
email address to the console. You can use the React hook
form library to help you with state management
and validation for React applications
containing forms. This reduces the amount of code developers need to
write when creating forms. It also helps improve
performance by eliminating unnecessary form
component re-rendering. You can install React
hook form using the install react
hook form command. In this video, you
learned that forms provide a way for users to interact with data in
a web application. Forms usually require
input fields, submission logic,
and validation rules to handle user interactions. The browser keeps track
of data and state of elements with the DOM in
uncontrolled components. Controlled components
require you to explicitly manage the UI input data
with the component's state. The React hook form
library optimizes performance by
reducing the number of times a component renders.