Welcome to
Introduction to Redux. After watching this video, you'll be able to compare and contrast component versus
application states, explain purpose of
the Redux library, describe when to use Redux, summarize the benefits
of using Redux. In order to understand
the usefulness of the Redux library, you should first
understand the differences between component and
application states. An application
state as opposed to a component state holds information about the
entire application. You can access this state from anywhere in
your application, not just a specific component. For example, consider an
e-commerce application that provides users
with a cart feature, you should let your users access the cart
feature anywhere in the application so
they can view or edit its contents or
check out at any time, regardless of any
particular state of a specific component. The Redux library helps you
handle the application state. Instead of individual components handling their own state, Redux can maintain the state of the application
state and pass information from
the application to component whenever
it gets called. In general, the larger
the application, the more useful Redux
potentially becomes. As the number of components
in your application grows, it becomes
increasingly difficult to manage all of those
component states. A large number of components indicates that you
should turn to Redux for help rather than frequently passing props through
your component tree. Also, you will likely
have components that use the same data but are randomly
located on the DOM tree, so passing data from
one component to varying locations on the tree becomes cumbersome
and hard to track. Because Redux handles
states globally, you can make updates to the state from anywhere
in the application. This prevents the need to create new objects with
each state change. Note that you can use the Redux library with
frameworks other than React, like Angular, Vue, and
just standard JavaScript. However, most developers who
use React also use Redux. Redux handles multiple
state changes in a place called
the Redux Store. A store refers to
a data structure that stores and manages data. Developers sometimes refer to the Redux store as the
single source of truth. You will find using Redux beneficial for multiple reasons. Using state at the
application level can reduce code complexity
and improve readability. You don't need to reason about a component's
particular status to understand the
application's behavior at a given point in time. Redux makes it easier to predict
the application state at any particular point
in time because you don't need to pass the data
between components as much. Redux makes code maintenance easier by eliminating the need to trace components up and down the tree to determine
their state data. Using Redux can help optimize performance because it reduces the number of page renders. It reloads only the
necessary updated parts of the page rather
than the entire page. In this video, you learned that an application
state holds data about the entire application
and you can access this data from any
particular component. You can use the Redux library to manage your
application's state. You will find Redux useful
when you need to pass data from one part of your
component tree to another. Benefits of Redux include
reducing coding complexity, improving code readability,
better performance, and easier code maintenance.