In this module, we are going to talk about
objects and classes. Python has many different
kinds of data types, integers, floats, strings, lists,
dictionaries, Booleans. In Python, each is an object. Every object has the
following; a type, internal representation,
a set of functions called methods
to interact with the data. An object is an instance
of a particular type. For example, we have two types, Type 1 and Type 2. We can have several objects
of Type 1 as shown in yellow. Each object is an
instance of Type 1. We also have several objects
of Type 2 shown in green. Each object is an
instance of Type 2. Let's do several less
abstract examples. Every time we create an integer, we are creating an
instance of type integer, or we are creating
an integer object. In this case, we are
creating five instances of type integer or
five integer objects. Similarly, every time
we create a list, we are creating an
instance of type list, or we are creating
a list object. In this case, we are
creating five instances of type list or
five list objects. We can find out the type of an object by using
the type command. In this case, we have
an object of type list. We have an object
of type integer. We have an object
of type string. Finally, we have an object
of type dictionary. A class or type methods are functions that every instance of that class or type provides. It's how you interact
with the object. We have been using
methods all this time, for example, on lists. Sorting is an
example of a method that interacts with the
data in the object. Consider the list ratings. The data is a series of numbers contained
within the list. The method sort will change
the data within the object. We call the method by adding a period at the end
of the object's name, and the method's name we would like to call
with parentheses. We have the ratings list
represented in orange. The data contained in the list
is a sequence of numbers. We call the sort method. This changes the data
contained in the object. You can say it changes
the state of the object. We can call the reverse
method on the list, changing the list again. We call the method reversing the order of the sequence
within the object. In many cases, you
don't have to know the inner workings of the
class and its methods, you just have to know
how to use them. Next, we will cover how to
construct your own classes. You can create your own
type or class in Python. In this section,
you'll create a class. The class has data attributes. The class has methods. We then create instances or instances of that
class or objects. The class data attributes
define the class. Let's create two classes. The first class
will be a circle. The second will be a rectangle. Let's think about what
constitutes a circle. Examining this image,
all we need is a radius to define
a circle and let's add color to make it
easier to distinguish between different instances
of the class later. Therefore, our class
data attributes are radius and color. Similarly, examining the image in order to define a rectangle, we need the height and width. We will also add color to distinguish between
instances later. Therefore, the data attributes are color, height and width. To create the class circle, you will need to include
the class definition. This tells Python
you are creating your own class, the
name of the class. For this course in parentheses, you will always place
the term object. This is the parent of the class. For the class rectangle, we change the name of the class, but the rest is kept the same. Classes are outlines
we have to set the attributes to
create objects. We can create an object that is an instance of type circle. The color data attribute is red, and the data attribute
radius is four. We can also create
a second object that is an instance
of type circle. In this case, the color
data attribute is green, and the data attribute
radius is two. We can also create an object that is an instance
of type rectangle. The color data
attribute is blue, and the data attribute of
height and width is two. The second object is also an
instance of type rectangle. In this case, the color
data attribute is yellow, and the height is one,
and the width is three. We now have different objects of class circle or type circle. We also have
different objects of class rectangle or
type rectangle. Let us continue building
the circle class in Python. We define our class. We then initialize each instance of the class with
data attributes, radius and color using
the class constructor. Function in it is a constructor. It's a special
function that tells Python you are
making a new class. There are other
special functions in Python to make more
complex classes. The radius and color
parameters are used to initialize the radius and
color data attributes of the class instance. The self parameter refers to the newly created
instance of the class. The parameters radius and color can be used in
the constructor's body to access the values passed to the class constructor when
the class is constructed. We can set the value of the radius and color
data attributes to the values passed to
the constructor method. Similarly, we can define the
class rectangle in Python. The name of the
class is different. This time, the class
data attributes are color, height and width. After we have created the class, in order to create an
object of class circle, we introduce a variable. This will be the
name of the object. We create the object by using
the object constructor. The object constructor consists
of the name of the class, as well as the parameters. These are the data attributes. When we create a circle object, we call the code
like a function. The arguments passed to the circle constructor
are used to initialize the data attributes of the newly created
circle instance. It is helpful to think
of self as a box that contains all the data
attributes of the object. Typing the object's name
followed by a dot and the data attribute name gives us the data attribute value,
for example, radius. In this case, the radius is 10. We can do the same for color. We can see the
relationship between the self parameter
and the object. In Python, we can also set or change the data
attribute directly, typing the object's name
followed by a dot and the data attribute name and set it equal to the
corresponding value. We can verify that the color
data attribute has changed. Usually, in order to change
the data in an object, we define methods in the class. Let's discuss methods. We have seen how data attributes consist of the data
defining the objects. Methods are functions that interact and change
the data attributes, changing or using the data
attributes of the object. Let's say we would like to
change the size of a circle. This involves changing
the radius attribute. We add a method at radius
to the class circle. The method is a
function that requires a self as well as
other parameters. In this case, we are going to
add a value to the radius. We denote that
value as r. We are going to add r to the
data attribute radius. Let's see how this part
of the code works when we create an object and call
the add radius method. As before, we create an object with the
object constructor. We pass two arguments
to the constructor. The radius is set to two and
the color is set to red. In the constructor's body, the data attributes are set. We can use the box analogy to see the current
state of the object. We call the method
by adding a dot followed by the method
name and parentheses. In this case, the argument of the function is the amount
we would like to add. We do not need to worry about the self parameter when
calling the method. Just like with the constructor, Python will take
care of that for us. In many cases, there may not be any parameters other than self specified in the
methods definition, so we don't pass any arguments
when calling the function. Internally, the method
is called with a value of eight and the
proper self object. The method assigns a new
value to self.radius. This changes the object, in particular, the
radius data attribute. When we call the
add radius method, this changes the
object by changing the value of the
radius data attribute. We can add default values to the parameters of a
class's constructor. In the labs, we also create
the method called drawCircle. See the lab for the
implementation of drawCircle. In the labs, we can create a new object of type circle
using the constructor. The color will be red and
the radius will be three. We can access the data
attribute radius. We can access the
attribute color. Finally, we can use
the method drawCircle to draw the circle. Similarly, we can create a
new object of type circle. We can access the data
attribute of radius. We can access the
data attribute color. We can use the method
drawCircle to draw the circle. In summary, we have created an object of
class circle called RedCircle with a
radius attribute of three and a color
attribute of red. We also created an object
of class circle called BlueCircle with a
radius attribute of 10 and a color
attribute of blue. In the lab, we have a
similar class for rectangle. We can create a new object of type rectangle using
the constructor. We can access a data
attribute of height. We can also access the
data attribute of width. We can do the same for the
data attribute of color. We can use the
method drawRectangle to draw the rectangle. We have a class,
an object that is a realization or
instantiation of that class. For example, we can
create two objects of class circle or two objects
of class rectangle. The dir function is
useful for obtaining the list of data attributes and methods associated
with a class. The object you're interested
in is passed as an argument. The return value is a list of that object's data attributes. The attributes surrounded by underscores are
for internal use, and you shouldn't have
to worry about them. The regular looking
attributes are the ones you should
concern yourself with. These are the objects
methods and data attributes. There is a lot more you can
do with objects in Python. Check python.org for more info.