Welcome to Insiders' Viewpoints: The Importance
of Design and Software Architecture. In this video, we will hear from experts discussing
the importance of design and software architecture in a software engineering project. Design and architecture are crucial. If you don't know where you're going, how
do you know what you need to do now? You always need to know what you should, what
your program needs to be prepared to handle, and the system that it's operating within. If you are running a series, if you're running
a bunch of applications that are all co-hosted on the same server, you can make certain assumptions
about the ways those services can interact with each other that do not hold. I also sometimes think of architecture and
orchestration. So you can you can have like a beautiful,
really nice sounding instrument. But if it's not in sync with the rest of the
orchestra, it's going to sound like a complete cacophonous mess in the end. So you really need to think about the bigger
picture. Sustainability, whether you're, you know,
what you're building actually makes sense in the larger sort of ecosystem. And every time if you spend the time to write
your code, and then you figure out why it doesn't work, you've wasted a lot of time
writing that code, maybe you've learned some things, it's not a total waste. But you've spent a lot of time that could
have been spent moving forward. And so if you can think about those things
ahead of time on a project. And then when you write your code, you're
reasonably sure that the code you write is actually going to persist and get used, that's
generally speaking a better place to be in. So architecture is very important. like there's a lot of talk about its scale,
global availability, often something you build would work very well in a very hyper local
environment, but not work well, when it's expected to be used across the globe or, you
know, works well for one user, but doesn't work well, for a million users. I'm building a service, I need XYZ
pieces of data to come into the function that I want to write. Where are those things coming from? How are they getting passed in? Once I have them what do I need to do with
them? What else needs to access this data? And how am I going to get the data to those
other parts also? If you don't have those questions answered,
you end up writing a lot of churny code. If everything is on a separate server somewhere
in the cloud, or separate physical servers that are just located somewhere different
inside your data center, then you have to incur a network hop to go over them. And that takes time, your page might start
timing out and your customers might get really upset at you for how long things take. And so, if you're building something in like
a microservice architecture, the way that you load your data becomes much more important
than if everything is hosted together on the same server. But maybe the question of who is using my
service? How do I know who you are? That can become an interesting question, depending
on where your servers where your services are running, and what mechanisms are available
to you to identify people. If your people if you want your customers
to log into a website, how are you doing account management? How do you know who that person is and what
they're allowed to do? Or if you have multiple services talking to
each other again, how do you know what that service is? What it's allowed to do? How do you make the call between one and the
other? How do you transmit data between different
parts of your stack? So architecture is very important. It doesn't
always have to be super well defined, super strictly defined, but you need to have some
idea of what what things do you need, roughly where they're going to live. And what things what are they responsible
for? Those would probably be the three big questions
to ask, what, where and scope of them? So these sorts of concepts, you know, you
have to think about those things. When you're designing or architecting a system,
you're thinking like, 5, 10 years ahead to when you're thinking about architecture and
design, you're not thinking about just building something quickly, in getting it up, you actually
want to plan ahead. So I think a lot of architecture and design
is thinking about, you know, how the how many steps, how many years, whatever in the future,
you know, what is it going to look like then? What do you need to do to keep growing the
system and evolving it? Because you know, you don't want to make gigantic
architecture changes that often, you know, you don't really use when buildings are repaired,
they there's like, tiny bits of things get repaired. And then at some point, you tear the thing
down and rebuild it. And I think that's a similar model applied to
sustainable system architecture, you don't want to re-architect and redesign every few
years, you want it to last as long as you possibly can.