Cloud computing is a key part of an
enterprise’s digital transformation strategy. As more and more companies are moving critical
business processes and applications to a mix of cloud infrastructures, qualified cloud
computing professionals are in high demand. With a compound annual growth rate of
14.1%, Grand View Research estimates that the cloud computing market will reach
a revenue of 1,554.94 billion in 2030. Employer demand is outpacing the number
of qualified candidates available. Gartner TalentNeuron’s database of more
than one billion unique job listings, scores the hiring scale for jobs requiring cloud
computing skills at 78, which means employers are finding it "difficult" to get the right applicants
for open positions in cloud technologies. There are many specialization
areas within this domain. Here’s a look at some of the
common roles available currently: 1. Cloud Developers, or Cloud Software
Engineers, work through all phases of the software development lifecycle:
writing, testing, and maintaining the code. They work with the front-
and back-end of applications, as well as platforms and systems
that their applications run on. Cloud Developers need to have a mix of
technical skills, business knowledge, and experience with at least one
of the major cloud providers. Technical skill for a Cloud
Developer would typically include: Knowledge of data structures, distributed
systems, operating systems, and algorithms. Experience with databases. Proficiency in commonly used web
application development languages, such as Python, JavaScript, Java, HTML, and CSS. 2. Cloud Integration Specialists are responsible for
integrating new cloud services, applications and infrastructure, into the organization’s portfolio
of internal systems and existing cloud services. These specialists assess the implications
and trade-offs between different solutions as they relate to the integration
between external and internal systems, optimize integration and user-experience, and ensure that performance standards adhere to
service level agreements set with the enterprise. 3. Cloud Data Engineers are
responsible for designing, developing, and deploying scalable
data pipelines and data services. They look at integrating new
data management technologies and software engineering tools
into existing infrastructure. Their responsibilities include: Understanding existing systems to recommend
automated integration of disparate data sets. Collaborating with data scientists and researchers to develop predictive
models and proofs of concept. Promoting best practices that enable teams to accelerate their consumption
and understanding of data. Improving overall efficiency by introducing
new engineering processes and tools. 4. Cloud Security Engineers provide expertise around
the systems and processes needed to protect the confidentiality, integrity, and availability of
an organization’s systems and application data. They:
Determine security requirements. Plan, implement, and test security systems. Perform threat simulations
to detect possible risks. Recommend innovative technologies that will
enhance the security of cloud-based environments. Cloud Security Engineers need to have deep
knowledge of cloud platforms and services, software design patterns, and
DevOps tools and methodologies. 5. Cloud DevOps Engineers collaborate
with development and operations teams to create reliable and rapid release
pipelines for software and updates. This may typically involve creating custom automation tools, building and maintaining configuration
and deployment frameworks, tracking design bugs and automating
the debugging process for developers, maintaining and deploying web-based applications, monitoring security issues, measuring performance against
expected business outcomes. Containerization expertise is increasingly
a must-have for DevOps Engineers. 6. Cloud Solutions Architects work
to translate business requirements into application architecture and design. Some of the technical skills required
for a Cloud Architect role include: deep knowledge of cloud platforms and services, deep understanding of software design patterns, knowledge of DevOps tools and methodologies, good understanding of networking, a high-level understanding
of key security concepts. Solution Architects work closely with Cloud
Developers, Networking Specialists, Security Engineers, Integration Specialists, and DevOps
Engineers to architect and design solutions. There are several resources available
for learning cloud technologies, in a variety of delivery methods,
including instructor-led courses, self-paced online courses, online videos, books,
and also technology-focused community forums. Many cloud providers have dedicated
learning portals with extensive resources available on the complete range of cloud
technologies and services they provide. They offer learning paths, which make resources
available as per specific career roles, hands-on learning labs, with
interactive learning resources that can be filtered by role, level, or product, free trials on their suite
of products and services.