In this video, we will look at some case studies that
demonstrate the use of cloud computing in real
business scenarios and the ensuing impact on these businesses and the
customers they serve. The weather company's
mission is to map the atmosphere of the
Earth and based on that, generate the most accurate
and hyperlocal forecast of which can be solved out to all our consumers and devices, which number in millions
across the globe. Weather is unpredictable
and we need to be able to spin up and spin down
as fast as weather happens. Our normal day-to-day load
is 30 million unique users. When we peek into severe
weather that can go north of 100 million
across our products. We generate forecasts on-demand. Our forecasts on-demand system is responsible for generating forecast at a resolution of
one squared kilometer grid. We deliver forecasts on-demand to the tune of 250
billion per day. On the backside of that
is our API platform. That system operates
at the scale of about 150,000 requests per second. If our products don't
work and don't work fast, people's lives are in danger. Imagine a hurricane is approaching East Coast
of the United States. As it is approaching the coast, usage of my weather data, goes up tremendously. It can go up from anywhere
from two times to five times. It took us six months
to migrate into to IBM Kubernetes from
our previous provider. What we've noticed is some
real efficiencies with DevOps. It's reduced our
workflow in pipeline by about 80%. With the latest hurricane, we were able to
scale with IBM Cloud very easily, very seamlessly. IBM's community service, allows us to scale as fast
as the weather happens. As we migrated our VEP platform to IBM Cloud
Kubernetes Services, one of the biggest advantages is that this is a
managed service-- which allows our team not to have to babysit
our system, enables them to do other work. With the migration to
IBM Cloud Kubernetes, we've gained the ability to have automation security baked in. This was a feature and
a component that was very manual for us in the past. IBM's security team proactively now notifies us of any
security vulnerabilities. The tools and the investment
that the company has made gives us capabilities that we would have
never had before. It gets us very excited and
it gives our developers and engineers opportunities to build new things that
they wouldn't have otherwise been able to do. The global reach
that IBM and IBM Cloud together with
our technology, with our capabilities
for forecasting, give us the ability to
extend our products and services to keep people
safe all over the world. Good afternoon,
ladies and gentlemen. Welcome aboard,
captain speaking. Pretty much anticipating
on-time arrival. In a scenario where there's
a flight cancellation or some other
off-schedule operation, we've had a system where we find new seats and flights
availability for those customers. But I think oftentimes
customers didn't necessarily know that that
was the best option for them. What we wanted to do
was create a system where they could actually
see alternate options. The goal was to facilitate a better experience for
our customers on how to get to their destination in an automated fashion on the
channel of their choice. In our business,
hurricanes, storms, other natural events impact our customers on a
fairly regular basis. What happened and
this is a true story. The hurricanes hit and everybody
said "this is ridiculous," our customers were
being impacted by the hurricanes immediately. Why are we mitigating risk of a traditional rollout when we have the power of the cloud? This is exactly
the scenario that our customers need
this capability. I think people now realize that these activities
and integration are much easier when we can use cloud technology and
especially microservices, we can break problems into
much smaller problems. Those get much easier to wrap your head
around and develop. This is the technology that
we need to be adopting now in order to keep pace with
our customer expectations. What I love about my job
at Cementos Pacasmayo is that it challenges
me every single day. Technology moves so agile that
I have to keep up with it. What I love it that
the company is also on that same road driving towards its digital
transformations. Our customers are now
demanding quicker time to market and also a more
broad portfolio of products we need to
keep up and deliver the best service and the
best products that they can get in the least
amount of time. We implemented
SAP S/4HANA on IBM Cloud, since it brings us a
cost-effective Infrastructure, and also it's quite scalable. Cementos Pacasmayo
is now turning from a product-driven company to
a service driven company. The accounting area now
has real insights on real-time of our
financial statements that they didn't use to have. Also on our supply
and chain area, especially on the procurement, they now have the dashboard that helps them take
decisions right on time. My name is Mukesh Sharma and I'm the Senior Manager
of IT at Welch Food. Welch's started as organization 150 years ago and pretty fast it became the national hallmark.
We're owned by the farmers; it's a co-up, and we value the sweat equity our
farmers put into it. That's what drives us every day that our farmers are
working out on the farms, and we're working here to make sure the organization gives the best benefit of each
dollar spent back to them. Welch's IT is the
heart of the business. All the manufacturing systems, any manufacturing data which comes in through
different processing, ERP systems and you name it. We started this journey
with the private cloud. Then at the same time, we have started the
process of asking ourselves on any new
application request. Can it be run in
the public cloud? The approach we have
taken is slowly and steadily start to move these non
mission-critical systems, which can be done better
by somebody else. Let them run outside, let them spend time on it while we spend time on
our core values. Liquid Power is a company that sells products
that when you inject them into crude oil
or gasoline pipelines, it changes the flow
characteristics to such a point that
you can either one, increase the flow of those
fluids, or secondly, use less energy to actually push the fluids
down the pipeline. We needed to become a standalone company
under Berkshire Hathaway. Without any
experience in running our own infrastructure for SAP, we had to come up with the
solution that was best for our business to operate
as a standalone company. There were many decisions
we had to make. Do we go cloud? Do
we stay on-premise? How do we create our
own infrastructure and back-office and what's
the best decision for us, not only today and now, but in the future going forward. I talked to some CIOs
and IT professionals. If you had a blank sheet of
paper, what would you do? Cloud or go on-premise? Without a doubt, all
of them say cloud. This whole process
and the migration to the cloud is giving what we believe is a
competitive advantage. What I really love about having IBM with SAP on the
cloud is it's scalable. We can do it much
faster and change in a much faster time period
than we could otherwise.