Welcome to What is Cloud Security Part 2. Organizations are migrating their workload
to a hybrid cloud environment increasing the threat attack surface. This expansion can result in new data security
and compliance challenges. Thus, you require a robust data-centric cybersecurity
program to protect your data. In addition, you require centralized visibility
and monitoring against unauthorized access, exposure, or data theft across your enterprise
data environment. Let’s discuss some data security capabilities
that you can implement to protect your data. To secure data, you can improve maturity across
people, process, and technology. Identify your most critical data assets, who
has access to them, and how they are protected. You can prevent data loss by detecting, preventing,
and enforcing policy violations to avoid accidental data loss. Implement data security governance by establishing
process, metrics, and continuous steady-state data discovery and classification. In addition, it is critical to monitor database
security by enforcing data protection and compliance policies across hybrid cloud environments. Your next focus in a cloud environment should
be the management of access controls and authentication. You need to develop Cloud identity and access
management (IAM) strategies that provide and work on zero trust architecture, risk protection,
and constantly authenticate any user to any resource. An organization should consider the following
points while building the IBM cloud: Modernize at your own pace, matching your
business requirements. Retain your existing investments and on-premises
applications, while slowly inducting the right cloud IAM architecture to complement or replace
your framework. Establish a zero-trust implementation that
will provide a centralized access control, preserve client confidentiality, reduce insider
threats, and secure your remote resources. Zero trust model and plan use an environment
that securely connects the right users to the right data at the right time under the
right conditions, while also protecting your organization from cyber threats. Enable scalability for your cloud IAM for
millions of users or transactions without a major modification of the infrastructure. Another element of cloud security is cloud
network security which refers to the security measures, technology, policies, controls,
and processes used to protect data on public, private, and hybrid cloud networks. There are many security implications when
you extend your network to a cloud environment. To meet modern network security requirements,
organizations need to deploy and manage network security built directly on the cloud. The benefits of cloud network security are:
Centralized security monitoring and management Easy management and updating of granular policies
Real-time detection and powerful prevention against intrusions, DDoS, and other web-based
attacks Automated configuration and management, helping
to eliminate misconfiguration errors, and maintain control over traffic
Encryption services to protect data at rest and in transit
Centralized protection and management of identity and access
Let’s summarize the best practices you can follow for cloud security. There are some critical steps under three
phases that you can follow. First is identifying your cloud usage state
and risks. Second is protecting your cloud system, and
third is responding to attacks. The first phase comprises:
Identifying how your data is accessed Detecting unknown cloud usage
Checking your configurations for cloud services Monitoring for signs of malicious usage of
cloud data In the second phase, you can protect your
cloud system by: Assigning protection policies
Encrypting sensitive data Formulating policies for data sharing
Restricting data sharing to unknown devices Implementing a bot protection and mitigation
solution Using a proper anti-malware solution
The third phase offers best practices for responding to attacks and attempts to attack:
Add additional authentication and verification steps for high-risk access scenarios
Add new policies for new cloud services The National Institute of Standards and Technology
(NIST) has made a list of best practices and principles that establish a secure and sustainable
cloud computing framework. These principles are NIST's five pillars of
a cybersecurity framework: Identify, Protect, Detect, Respond, and Recover. Another emerging technology in cloud security
that supports cybersecurity framework is cloud security posture management (CSPM). CSPM solutions are designed to address a common
error in many cloud environments, that is, misconfigurations. CPSM also addresses issues by helping in the
deployment of the core components of cloud security. They include identity and access management
(IAM), regulatory compliance management, traffic monitoring, threat response, risk mitigation,
and digital asset management. The colossal increase in cloud adoption across
the cyberworld will motivate cybercriminals to target organizations in the cloud environment. Although organizations are taking adequate
security measures, they are still vulnerable to cyber-attacks. The current major trend in cloud security
includes multi-cloud strategies such as cybersecurity mesh, zero-trust security models, hybrid and
multi-cloud environment, cloud-native tools and applications, deployment of DevSecOps,
securing remote workforces, and AI and machine learning for threat detection. The focus is on privacy and data protection
regulations.