Welcome to What is Cloud Security Part 1. Today, organizations are moving
towards digital transformation with the introduction of cloud computing. They are changing their infrastructure and
incorporating cloud-based tools and technologies. This transition to cloud-based environments
can have several adverse consequences. If cloud-based technologies are not
used securely, the organizations can be subjected to external threats that can
be a danger to their business security. Thus, to gain the maximum benefit,
enterprises, when using interconnected cloud technologies, require the best
cloud security procedures and technology. A cloud computing environment offers
different as-a-service models that enable organizations to offload many
time-consuming IT-related tasks. Examples are infrastructure-as-a-service
(IaaS), platform-as-a-service (PaaS), and software-as-a-service (SaaS) computing models. However, while using these services, organizations may encounter many
challenges related to data security. Although third-party cloud
computing providers follow security best practices and ensure the
integrity of their servers, data asset management is still the responsibility of
the organization availing these services. With the evolution of cloud computing environment,
security threats have also become more advanced. These threats target cloud
computing providers because of a lack of transparency in the data
movement and access across the cloud. Thus, organizations need to be compliant and have the right approvals when managing
client data stored on the cloud. A successful deployment of the
cloud infrastructure is dependent on the countermeasures to secure
against modern-day cyberattacks. You should have adequate cloud security
solutions in all cloud environments, whether they are private, public, or hybrid
to ensure business continuity and security. Identifying the right cloud security
solution requires various considerations. Let’s discuss them. First is lack of visibility
in a public cloud environment. It is difficult to keep track
of who is accessing your data and which cloud service they are
using outside your organization. Second is multitenancy in
a public cloud environment. Multiple client infrastructures might be
hosted by the same cloud computing provider. Your services might get compromised by malicious
attackers when targeting other businesses. Another challenge is access
management and shadow IT. You may find it difficult to restrict unfiltered access to your services from any device
and geolocation in a cloud environment. Finally, misconfigurations of
assets are also accountable for breached records in a cloud environment. They include inappropriate privacy settings
or retaining default administrative passwords. Next, let’s discuss some evolving
threats and risks in cloud computing. Insider threats are caused by current
or former employees, business partners, contractors, or anyone who has had access
to systems or networks in the past. They can at any time abuse
their access permissions. This category of threats is invisible to external
security systems and thus are more dangerous. Another prevalent attack on the cloud computing
system is distribute-denial-of-service (DDoS). A DDoS attack targets the server
on the enterprise by overloading it with traffic from multiple synchronized systems. The attack works through Simple Network
Management Protocol (SNMP) used for modems, printers, switches, routers, and servers. The cloud faces another critical
risk and that is data breach. A breach can be due to a leak in the cloud
security measures used by your organization. Malicious users may gain access to
sensitive data and misuse the information. A breach can cost the organization
a financial and reputation loss. Now let’s understand the different
security models used in cloud computing. A shared responsibility model is
a cloud security framework where the organization hands off certain IT security
responsibilities to the cloud computing provider. Each party, the cloud provider and the user are
accountable for different aspects of the security, and they work together for
the full security coverage. There are different types of shared
security models for IaaS, PaaS, and SaaS. In IaaS, the provider looks
after the physical security of the infrastructure at their data centers. IaaS users are responsible for the
security of the software including the OS required to run their
applications and their data. In PaaS, the provider secures
the platform including the OS, user subscriptions and login credentials,
but the user is responsible for the security of any code or data -- or other
content -- produced on the platform. However, in SaaS, the provider is responsible
for almost every aspect of security, including underlying infrastructure, service application,
and the data the application produces. Users still have some security responsibilities
such as protection of login credentials.