Welcome to Job Market for Cloud
Computing – Expert Viewpoints. In this video, we will listen to several cloud
application professionals discuss the job market and the nature of opportunities available in cloud computing for people aspiring to get into this field. They will also discuss what they foresee as
the future of opportunities in this field. With more companies adopting some sort
of cloud and becoming more cloud aware, there is no lack of opportunities
for aspiring software developers. Now, you could get into this field
as a cloud architect where you're thinking about how to architect applications,
which by the way, look a lot different than if you were developing applications, monolith applications on a single server, versus developing applications
for the distributed cloud. So that, that is a very prominent role. Another role could be that of a data engineer, where you're looking at building pipelines,
for data to flow from their source databases, and other storage into perhaps data science
models that are deployed at scale on Cloud. Another very important role
is that of a cloud security engineer. In that role, it will be your responsibility
to see that all of the all of the different layers of your cloud are secure for
your developers and your end users. There are so many opportunities for people
thinking about getting into Cloud computing, you'd be surprised how many
companies are still not in the cloud. And it's very clear that they're all going
to go to the cloud eventually, because it's just so much better for so many
reasons that we've talked about. And there is not enough talent right now, to fill all of that demand. And
that demand will just keep coming. And, really, there are so many things to know
about the cloud, one person can know them all. So if you just learn one or two
things about the cloud really well, you're already going to be
really valuable to some company. Let's say you just know, storage
service, and one compute service really well or even just decently that
is really valuable to many companies. And if you're just getting started, I
would recommend get a certification. I had zero experience in the
cloud, and I got a certification. And by getting that cloud certification, I was instantly more visible
to recruiters and I got a job. And so if you don't have the experience on your
resume, start off by getting a certification. Depending on your area of interest, you can get
into different fields under cloud computing. If you like programming, you can be a
cloud application developer. You should have knowledge of front end and back end technologies like Python, Java, Angular, React etc. It would also require you to have database skills in relational databases like SQL, MySQL, as well as NoSQL databases like Hadoop,
Mongo DB, etc. There is a rapidly increase demand for
Machine learning and Artificial intelligence. You need to have a good understanding
of machine learning concepts and should have the ability to
handle and process big data. You can choose the career path of being a
data scientist, machine learning engineer. There is also a need for cloud professionals
with specialization in cloud security skills. These professionals should understand
cloud security and also leverage the cloud security tools offered by organizations. Another opportunity for cloud
computing is in the area of DevOps. DevOps Engineers will need an understanding of
DevOps tools like Docker, Kubernetes, Github etc. They should also focus on understanding the CI/CD pipeline and automating the
process of development and deployment. Suffice it to say, there are a myriad of
career paths in the cloud technology space, including professional career
path options for people with-- and without, you know, a BS degree
or a non technical college degree. Companies cannot find enough
trained people in cloud technology. So opportunities and demand
are definitely out there. In addition, companies are focusing on
training their current employees both, you know, reskilling and upskilling
to meet this demand internally. So Coursera is committed to
helping people without college degrees or people that are making
career changes to access the job, these job opportunities that
exist in cloud technology.