Making sense of the
endless streams of data is where artificial
intelligence or AI comes in. Many of the
applications where we apply AI today simply wouldn't have been possible
without the scalable on-demand computing
offered by the Cloud. There is a three-way
relationship between AI, IoT, and Cloud. Just as AI consumes the data
produced by IoT devices, the IoT device's behavior can be dictated based on
responses from AI. For example, smart assistants. A common type of IoT
device continues to learn about the user's
preferences as usage grows. Such as songs they like, their home temperature
settings, preferred mealtimes, and over time they anticipate their actions based on
the user's past history. What we see is a symbiotic
relationship between IoT, AI, and Cloud. IoT delivers the data, AI powers the insights, and both these emerging technologies leverage
Cloud scalability and processing power
to provide value to individuals and
businesses alike. Let's look at how the United States Tennis Association, USTA, is using AI on the
Cloud to deliver unique digital experiences to millions of fans
around the world. For two weeks at the
end of every summer, tennis fans around the
world turn their eyes to New York City
and the US Open. Hundreds of thousands on-site
and millions more online. But where you see tennis, IBM sees data, the
scores in statistics, the sights, the sounds. IBM intergrates and analyzes the data flowing from
the court and delivers unique digital experiences to more than 10 million tennis fans around the world and we do
it all in the IBM Cloud. The IBM Cloud is the digital
foundation of the US Open. It scales rapidly to meet
a 5,000% increase in web traffic and it delivers a consistent experience to our
fans all around the globe. With Watson on the IBM Cloud, we can engage fans in unique
ways, year after year. Slam Tracker analyses more than 26 million
historical data points. It gives fans deep insight into featured matches and you can see the momentum of a match
shifting in real-time. AI Highlights uses
Watson to process thousands of hours
of US Open video. It can hear the
cheers of the crowd, it can see a player celebrating, and it knows what makes a
great tennis highlight. This year we're
putting the power of AI highlights into the hands
of US players and coaches. Watson is analyzing match video, so coaches can quickly
find the footage they need to guide the development
of their players. If you need to know
where to park, find a good burger or grab
the latest US Open gear, you can find the answers with the guest information feature in the US Open app and
mobile web using Watson. We work with IBM because they keep us on the cutting edge
of the fan experience. They help us to adopt
the latest technology like Cloud and AI, and they bring data to
life in a way that's accessible and
engaging for our fans. In the next video, we're going to look
at how blockchain and analytics on the Cloud
are impacting businesses.