Blockchain is a secure
distributed open technology that can help speed
up processes, lower costs, and build
transparency and traceability in
transactional applications. It is an immutable network
allowing members to view only those transactions
that are relevant to them. The more open, diverse, and distributed the network, the stronger the trust and transparency in the
data and transactions. Eighty-five percent
of businesses today rely on multiple clouds
to meet their IT needs. With more than 70 percent
using more than three. These businesses need to be
able to move applications and data across multiple Clouds
easily and securely, leading to the emerging
demand to build and manage business applications such as blockchain for the
multi-Cloud environment. Blockchain and AI, much like IoT and AI
powered by the Cloud, also have a three-way
relationship. Where blockchain technology
provides the trusted, decentralized source of truth, AI powers the analytics and decision-making from
the data collected, and Cloud provides
globally distributed, scalable and cost efficient computing
resources to support both the unprecedented amounts of data being collected and the processing power required to draw insights from this data. Blockchain serves to make AI more understandable by recording the data and variables that go into a decision made
in an AI algorithm, leading to greater trust
and transparency in the conclusions and decisions
made by these algorithms. Let's look at how
blockchain on the Cloud is helping farmers
reduce waste at times of recall by building traceability and transparency
in the food supply chain. For farmers here, this is our life's work, 60 percent of the
nation's lettuce is grown right here in Salinas. When it comes down to how
plants are looked at, I really relate back to how humans are raised and nurtured. I want to make sure
that everything is safe before it leaves the ranch. But when a recall happens, perfectly good food
goes to waste. You have to take all
product off your shelf. No matter what age, no matter where it came from, it takes resources to
grow those things. Then now we're actually eating into our
future food supply. But we've got a way around that. Blockchain technology
on the IBM Cloud. We're able to track our
product within seconds, giving the consumers
instant access where the product came from in
case there's any recall, so we don't have to take all
the food off the shelves. Having that instant access allows you to reduce the waste. There's a lot of starving
people in this world. "A nice wedge." I want to be the generation
that fixes that. Analytics technologies
on the Cloud leverage the flexibility, scalability, and
computing resources available on the Cloud. From tracking trends on social media to
predict future events, to analyzing data to build machine learning
models that can be deployed in cognitive
applications. Cloud provides the
integrated environment that is required to leverage data for
continuous improvement and accelerated business growth. Let's look at how
KONE has invested in Cloud and IoT
technologies to power a data analytics and predictive
maintenance solution for city infrastructure used by more than 1 billion
people daily. At KONE, we
manufacture elevators, escalators, autowalks
and doors. All of these devices are streams of data that
we're collecting. In order to process
those streams, we need a scalable way of handle the amount of
data that is coming in. That's where Cloud Function
fits in perfectly. We handle that data with
event-driven architecture. We use functions to process that data and to generate
further events on that data that are then
utilized and consumed by applications and our
customers at large. In our analytics platform, we analyzed the
set of data and we generate value
predictive in a sense that we can predict
the failure rate to a certain percentage
that is about to happen in the future
for our equipment, and this allows us to perform
predictive maintenance. This is the whole
concept that we have behind our 24/7
connected services, which is a promise to
our costumers that the equipment is connected to the Cloud and
we're monitoring it. That's where we generate the real value for our
customer in this perspective. At the moment, we use almost all aspects
of the IBM Cloud. We use storage from the Cloud, we use Cloud Functions, we use messaging services, we use IoT services. A number of services already in use in platform
and that use will only grow as our digital
footprint in the industry grows.