(Music) Cloud adoption is no longer
a thing of the future. From a single individual to
a global multi-billion-dollar enterprise, anybody can access the computing
capacity they need on the cloud. The lag time from decision to value is no longer
a journey of years with high upfront capital. Cloud makes it possible for businesses
to experiment, fail, and learn much faster than ever before, with low risk exposure. Businesses today have greater freedom to change
course than to live with the consequences of expensive decisions taken in the past. According to an IBM Institute for Business Value study, more than
three-quarters of enterprises today are using cloud computing to expand
into new industries. 74% have adopted cloud to improve customer
experience, and 71% use cloud to create enhanced products and services while simultaneously
downsizing legacy systems and reducing costs. To remain competitive, businesses need to
be able to respond quickly to marketplace changes, use analytics to understand customer
experience, and apply that understanding to adapt their products and services based on
what they learn. Product lifecycles have shortened, and barriers
to entry have become lower. Cognitively-enabled workflows, Applied exponential technologies such as AI,
Automation, IoT, and Blockchain, applications that span new and legacy solutions,
and open hybrid and secure
Multicloud infrastructures, are today's enablers for
growth, agility and innovation. The power, scalability, flexibility, and
pay-as-you-go economics of cloud has made it the underpinning foundation
for digital transformation. The International Data Corporation, IDC,
predicts that by 2025, the total amount of digital data created
worldwide will rise to 163 zettabytes (where one zettabyte is equivalent
to a trillion gigabytes). And 30% of this data will
be real-time information. Considering the unprecedented amounts of data
being produced daily, and the ability to make data-driven decisions crucial to any business,
cloud computing becomes essential for businesses to succeed, sustain, and compete in today’s
markets. A cloud strategy, more than just an IT strategy, is the core component of
any business strategy today. Businesses that haven’t already, or are
not currently, integrating cloud into their business strategy, run the risk of lacking the speed, agility,
innovation, and decision-making capacities needed to be competitive, as also
their ability to respond to digital disruption. In the next video, we’ll look at some case
studies that demonstrate the impact businesses have created by adopting cloud.