In this video, we will look at how some of
the leading businesses have transformed the way they work to provide better customer service,
remove barriers to innovation, achieve enterprise scale, and accelerate growth, using cloud
technologies. Although the case studies we’ll look at
are curated from IBM Cloud, similar stories with dramatic impact to business can be found
across the spectrum of companies utilizing other Cloud Service providers as well. BETTER CUSTOMER SERVICE:
In the highly competitive airline industry, customer experience is a major point of differentiation,
and digital channels are increasingly important. To become more responsive to customer needs,
American Airlines needed a new technology platform and a new approach to development
that would help it deliver digital self-service tools and customer value more rapidly across
its enterprise. The airline recognized the opportunity to
remove the constraints of their existing customer-facing applications based on monolithic code into
cloud-native based microservices architecture on the cloud. The results,
Faster development and release of new apps Improved operational reliability, productivity,
and end customer response times Cost savings by avoiding existing upgrade
costs via migration to the IBM Cloud REMOVING BARRIERS TO INNOVATION:
As a lean organization with a self-imposed limit on headcount, UBank excels at finding
innovative ways to meet demands. Continually challenged to find more efficient
ways to operate, UBank’s IT team explored a Platform as a Service (PaaS) cloud development
model. Their need was to give more control to their
developers, reduce the need for additional resources, faster speed to market, and removing
barriers in going from an idea to production. UBank launched new initiatives in an IBM Cloud
Platform environment, including a virtual assistant that incorporates IBM Watson technology
to support the bank’s online home loan application. The results,
Faster time to market made possible through the Cloud Platform framework that streamlines
development and empowers product teams. Foster greater innovation with cloud-based
development resources that are quick, easy, and cost-effective to deploy.
More efficient operations. DEMAND FOR ENTERPRISE SCALE:
Since its inception in 2008, Bitly has journeyed from a startup that offered intelligent link-shortening
technology adopted by users to compress lengthy URLs for social media posts, to an enterprise
product. Seeking an agile, cost-effective IT infrastructure
to support this transition, Bitly started planning for cloud migration. Their need was to have a cloud-based model
with pay-as-you-go pricing, the ability to scale up and down, a more global presence,
and the ability to geodistribute into more POPs. And they wanted it to be low-risk. Bitly migrated to an IBM Cloud environment,
establishing a scalable hosting platform for low-latency delivery to enterprise customers
around the world. The results,
25 billion data-infused links migrated from one hosting site to Cloud infrastructure with
data center locations worldwide. 1 billion user interaction data set stored
and managed in a flexible, cost-effective Cloud Object Storage environment.
Transformed IT operations to scale for growth, control costs and focus valuable resources
on new product development. ACCELERATING GROWTH:
Financial traders demand extreme speed and availability from trading systems. Profitability depends on split-second decisions. As a leading online broker in forex, commodities,
equities, cryptocurrencies, indices, and other financial instruments, ActivTrades enables
investors to buy and sell on numerous financial markets. Investors need reliable access to accurate
market information, combined with the ability to move rapidly to execute trades. As its client base grew, ActivTrades wanted
to cut latency, accelerate execution, and streamline the delivery of new functions. ActivTrades migrated three major trading systems
from on-premises infrastructure to IBM Cloud for VMware solutions, backed by data storage,
networking, and security offerings on the IBM Cloud. The results,
Up to 3X performance boost, helping clients seize fleeting opportunities for profit.
Security-rich cloud platform with ultra-high availability protects client investments.
Hours, not days to fire up new resources, for faster response to emerging requirements.
In the next video, we’ll look at some of the emerging technologies that are available
on the cloud and the opportunities they bring to businesses.