Why would you choose
Cloud computing over traditional hosting
on a local server? Cloud computing
offers businesses more flexibility and scalability than hosting on a local server. It is a business model or service that combines
technology like virtualization with a few of the latest trends and if you
require extra bandwidth, a Cloud-based service can
address that need promptly, rather than waiting for a
complex and costly update to your IT infrastructure. Users can customize
their applications using Cloud services from anywhere if they have an
Internet connection. In addition, Cloud
computing enables efficient marketing
of applications regardless of
maintenance and cost. To get a common understanding
of Cloud computing, let's start with the US National Institute of
Standards and Technology, (NIST)'s definition of
Cloud computing. NIST defines Cloud computing as a model for
enabling convenient, on-demand network access to a shared pool of configurable
computing resources that can be rapidly
provisioned and released with minimal management effort or service provider interaction. Examples of computing
resources include networks, servers, storage,
applications, and services. This Cloud model is composed of five essential
characteristics, four deployment models and
three service models. Let's start with understanding the five essential
characteristics of the Cloud, which include on-demand self service, broad
network access, resource pooling, rapid
elasticity, and measured service. On demand self-service, the first characteristic,
means you can access Cloud resources
whenever required. For example, a 24-hour ATM or a vending machine at
the office or store. Services are always available
on all days of the year, regardless of whether
a particular day is a national holiday, weekend, festival
day, and so on. There are no exceptions
other than when services are unable due to an
outage or security breach. Broad network access means that Cloud computing resources can be accessed through the network. Public Cloud services could
generally be accessible from anywhere and on any device with Internet connectivity and
browser capabilities. Today, we are open to more than just desktops or laptops when
accessing Cloud services. There are many other devices
such as tablets, iPads, smartphones, e-readers,
smart wearables, and so on. Also, to emphasize again, Internet access is mandatory for accessing public Cloud services. However, in an on-premises
private Cloud, an Intranet can only suffice for accessing
Cloud services, provided the organization
does not need to reach out to the
entire world public. With resource pooling, consumers save on costs
when using a shared model. This model provides Cloud
providers economies of scale, which they can pass on
to their customers. Making the Cloud cost efficient. Computing resources
are pulled to serve multiple consumers using
a multi-tenant model, Cloud resources are dynamically assigned and reassigned
according to demand without customers
needing to concern themselves with the physical
location of these resources. Rapid elasticity
implies that you can increase or decrease
resources as per your demand. Because of the elastic
property of the Cloud, resources can be scaled
up or down vertically scaling or scaled out as
in horizontal scaling. An ideal example would be to
add resources when there is an increase in demand due to the increase in the number of users while shopping online, like during a holiday sale and the converse after
the sales period. Measured service means
that you only pay for what you use or
reserve as you go. Measured services, however, do not apply to certain
Cloud services, such as general email services like Gmail, Hotmail, Yahoo, social media sites like
Facebook, Twitter, WhatsApp, and Cloud service evaluation
on a trial basis like AWS, Azure and GCP, which are
provided for free due to the discretion policies extended by the respective
service providers. Measured service
is also termed as a utility model of billing, where you are charged
after the usage and at the end of the
predefined period, like monthly electric charges. We will discuss
the deployment and service models later
in this module.