In this new era, technologies such as Internet
of Things, Big Data, artificial intelligence, and blockchain are disrupting existing business
models and industries while creating unprecedented opportunities for businesses to differentiate
themselves and create value for their clients. The power, scale, dynamic nature, and
economics of the cloud resources make cloud computing a key enabler for adoption
and evolution of these emerging technologies. In this video, we will look at how
the Internet of Things, or IoT, powered by cloud, is making a big
difference for businesses today. The Internet of Things, or IoT, is a giant
network of connected things and people that have changed much of how we live our
daily lives - from the way we drive, to how we make purchases, monitoring our personal
health, and even how we get energy for our homes. Smart devices and sensors are
continuously tracking and collecting data. For example, a smart building could have
thousands of sensors measuring all kinds of data related to thermal, optical,
structural, and environmental stimuli. An unprecedented amount of
data is being generated, putting a tremendous strain on the Internet. That is where the cloud comes in, by connecting
the IoT device user to the cloud - be it for device registration, device identity,
storing data, or accessing enterprise data. Data collected through IoT devices is stored
and processed on the cloud since IoT devices can be in a state of motion, the cloud serves as a
collection point in closest proximity, minimizing the latency in reporting up the data points and
providing a response back to the IoT application. So, from IOT platforms running entirely on the cloud to the interfaces used by
customers to interact these devices, to the backend analytics platforms -
cloud computing supports and enables IoT. Cloud service providers also offer specialized IoT services designed to help speed up
the development of IoT solutions. Let's look at a case study that demonstrates
the use of the IoT on the cloud to combat the poaching of endangered rhinos at
Welgevonden by making poaching predictable. The rhinos have become one of the key species that is becoming endangered due to
poaching throughout Africa. But now, especially in South Africa. Up until now, poachers have been
increasing in numbers, and they become more militarized with weapons. And so, of course, we've had to do the same. This is not sustainable. The only way to do this better, is to bring in
technology and things that they do not have. This endangered species is getting
help from some unexpected friends, the zebra and
antelope. They're wearing IoT sensors
connected to the IBM cloud. When poachers enter the area, the
animals run for it, which alerts Rangers who can track their emotions and
help stop them before any harm is done. It's a smart way to help increase
the Rhino population and turn the poachers into the endangered species. In the next video we're going to look at
how artificial intelligence on the cloud is impacting businesses.