[MUSIC] Let's look at some numbers and predictions
that help us see the scale cloud is predicted to achieve in the coming years. Gartner Inc.Forecasts,
in the near future, worldwide public cloud spending will grow 20.7%
to total $591.8 billion, scaling up from $490.3
billion in previous years. Global spending on desktop as a service
will reach $3.2 billion in 2023 as companies shift away from traditional
client computing solutions to subscription-based virtual
desktop services. In the coming years, enterprises will
spend more on public cloud services than traditional IT solutions. What is clear is that cloud is
accelerating faster than predicted, adoption is high, and
revenues are soaring. The question for businesses today is no
longer if they need to adopt the cloud, rather what their cloud adoption strategy
should be to best serve their businesses and customers. Keeping up with this
technological wave and driving it forward are the cloud service
providers with a wide range of services. We will now talk about some of
the major cloud service providers in alphabetical order. Alibaba Cloud, while relatively new, is the largest Chinese cloud
computing service provider. Alibaba Cloud provides a comprehensive
suite of global cloud computing services to power not just their
customers online businesses, but also the Alibaba group's
own e-commerce ecosystem. It offers a host of products and
services such as compute, network, storage, security,
monitoring and managing. Communication, analytics,
IoT, application development, data migration, web hosting and more. One of the first to enter the cloud
computing space, Amazon Web Services, or AWS Cloud, offers an extensive range
of infrastructure and platform services to individuals, companies and governments
on a metered, pay as you go basis. The Amazon Cloud provides a wide
range of products, services and solutions ranging from compute,
DevOps, data, analytics. IoT, machine learning, networking,
content delivery, robotics, serverless computing and much more. Google Cloud Platform, or GCP, is a suite
of cloud computing services providing infrastructure, platform and
serverless computing environments. Google also uses GCP internally for their end user products such
as Google Search and YouTube. Google Cloud includes G suite
with products for communication, productivity, collaboration,
storage and more. The Google app engine is a platform for
developing and hosting web applications in
Google managed data centers, automatically allocating and
deallocating resources to handle demand. IBM Cloud is a full stack cloud
platform that spans public, private and hybrid environments, with products and
services covering compute, network, storage, management,
security, DevOps and databases. Some of their prominent offerings include
their bare metal servers, VMware, cloud packs for application modernization,
virtual private cloud, and the suite of emerging technologies
such as AI, IoT, blockchain, data and analytics. With the acquisition of Red Hat, IBM is
also positioning itself as the leading hybrid cloud provider of our times. Microsoft Azure is a flexible cloud
platform for building, testing, deploying and managing applications and services
through Microsoft managed data centers. With its data centers
spread out in many regions, Azure provides a global
reach with local presence. It provides software, platform and
infrastructure services supporting Microsoft specific and third party
languages, tools and frameworks. Oracle Cloud is primarily known for
SaaS and Database as a service, also known as the Oracle Data Cloud. Oracle's SaaS offering includes wide
ranging applications such as ERP, SCM, HCM, marketing, sales,
and CX running in the cloud. And the Oracle Data Cloud provides one of
the largest cloud based data management platforms, helping customers
personalize their online, offline and mobile marketing campaigns for
targeted audiences. Oracle Cloud also provides some cloud
infrastructure and platform services. Salesforce specializes in their software
as a service offering that focuses on customer relationship management,
supporting businesses to better connect with their customers,
partners and potential customers. Salesforce offers multiple cloud
services such as Sales Cloud, Service Cloud and Marketing Cloud, helping
customers track analytics in real-time. Customers success and
support customer complaints, even listening into customers across
social platforms to automatically route them to the appropriate agents for
resolution. SAP is known for enterprise software and
applications such as ERP, CRM, HR, and Finance running in the cloud. There is also an SAP cloud platform for
building and extending business application
patients with rapid innovation cycles in a secure cloud computing
environment managed by SAP. In the next video, we're going to look at
the business case for cloud computing. [MUSIC]