[MUSIC] Development teams need to design,
develop, deliver, and run software as reliably and
efficiently as possible. Operations teams need to identify and
resolve problems as soon as possible by monitoring, predicting failure, managing
the environment, and fixing issues. Combining development and
operations with the ability to monitor and analyze and
optimize bottlenecks gives us DevOps. A collaborative approach where business
owners, and the development, operations, and quality assurance teams collaborate
to continuously deliver software. A DevOps approach applies agile and lean
thinking principles to all stakeholders in an organization who develop,
operate, or benefit from the business's software systems, including customers,
suppliers, partners. By extending lean principles across the
software supply chain, DevOps capabilities improve productivity through
accelerated customer feedback cycles. Unified measurements and
collaboration across an enterprise, and reduced overhead, duplication, and rework. Using the DevOps approach, developers
can produce software in short iterations on a continuous delivery schedule of new
features and bug fixes in rapid cycles. And businesses can seize
market opportunities and reduce time to include customer
feedback in their products. The DevOps process involves continuous
delivery, which is about delivering small, well-designed, high quality
increments of software to customers. Continuous integration, creating packaged builds of the code
changes released as immutable images. Where immutable implies that
when modifications are needed, the entire component is replaced
with an upgraded version. Continuous deployment, which involves
progressing each new packaged build through the deployment lifecycle
as rapidly as possible. Continuous monitoring with tools that help
developers understand the performance and availability of their applications even
before they are deployed to production. Delivery pipeline, which is an automated
sequence of steps that involves the stages of ideation, coding, building, deploying,
managing, and continuous improvement, which loops back to the ideation
phase in the delivery pipeline. While DevOps can apply to applications
anywhere, there is especially a compelling case for DevOps when it comes to cloud
ready and cloud native applications. With its near limitless compute power and
available data and application services, cloud computing platforms come with
their own risks and challenges. DevOps tools, practices, and
processes are helping tackle some of the complexities and
challenges posed by the cloud and allowing solutions to be
delivered quickly and reliably. Let's look at some core capabilities that
DevOps provides to help building and running applications in
the cloud a lot more manageable. DevOps best practices make it possible
to programmatically provision servers, build middleware,
install application code, and fully automate the installation
process in a way that is documented, repeatable, verifiable, and traceable. Application deployments often
involve considerable complexity. The DevOps practices of
continuous integration and continuous deployment help create
a fully automated deployment pipeline, which is important all through
the application development lifecycle. Cloud native applications form a complex
distributed system with multiple moving parts, independent tech stacks,
and rapid release cycles. DevOps principles are essential to define
how people work together to build, deploy, and manage applications
in a cloud native approach. With the DevOps best practices
of automated provisioning and continuous deployment, developers,
quality professionals, and other stakeholders can test in low cost
production-like test environments that were previously not available,
enhancing both productivity and quality. When systems are compromised or struggling
to recover from natural disasters, DevOps best practices make it possible to rebuild
these systems quickly and reliably. DevOps provides a powerful set
of principles, practices, and tools to realize the full potential of
cloud native computing as well as for modernizing existing applications
to leverage cloud benefits. [MUSIC]