[MUSIC] Hybrid cloud,
as we covered in the previous lesson, is a computing environment that
connects an organization's on-premise private cloud and third-party public
cloud into a single infrastructure for running the organization's applications. Multi-cloud is a cloud adoption
strategy that embraces a mix of cloud models from different service providers,
public, private, and managed, across infrastructure,
platform, or software services. For example, a business may consume
email as a service from one provider, a CRM application from another, and
infrastructure from yet another provider. So essentially, a hybrid multi-cloud implies you are able
to leverage the best of cloud models and services across different service
providers and have your applications and workloads working seamlessly
across multiple different clouds. In this video,
we will look at some use cases for why a business may want to use
a hybrid multi-cloud approach. >> In this video, I want to touch
on a few of those use cases for why a business may want to to
use hybrid or multi-cloud. Let's start with the basic one,
cloud scaling. Now, most of us are probably
familiar with this. It's one of the main reasons for
adopting the cloud. Now let's say we have a flower delivery
service that is able to hit a certain bottom line of users. They have on premise infrastructure and
it can hit a certain amount of user load. So visualizing this here. Throughout a calendar year, you can
imagine that their load maybe goes up and down and responds to specific holidays. Now, to hit those peaks, they could
scale up their on premise architecture, but that's met with upfront costs and
costs of upkeep. Now instead, what they'll instead
do is take advantage of cloud that allows them to scale up
in response to that load and then automatically deprovision resources
when they no longer need them. Now, this concept is kind of general
to cloud computing, not just hybrid or multi-cloud. But that brings me to my next topic, and here we're going to be talking about how
it can be used to build a composite cloud. So essentially this is going to be
applications that are spread across multiple cloud environments. So back to the flower delivery service. Let's say they have on premise
architecture that allows them to run three major components of their app. So let's say they have the Web UI,
they have some billing APIs,
as well as a rewards framework. Now let's say that this service
is actually based in EU and their European customers are happy. But for their North American or
American customers, specifically around Veterans Day or Thanksgiving, they're
noticing that the system is bogging down. And so they decide to take advantage of
a hybrid cloud or multi-cloud architecture by composing their application
across multiple cloud environments. So, they'll take advantage of data centers
in America and essentially they've identified that although the rewards
framework can stay on prem in their European side, they want to move
the billing and the UI capabilities over. So, they'll move just those
two to a cloud platform of their choice in a North American or
American data center. This kind of allows them to scale
up portions in response to, say, American holidays while keeping their
EU portions individually scaled. So in this example, the flower delivery
service is able to take advantage of scaling at a global level by using
the hybrid or multi-cloud architecture. Next, let's talk about the airline or
travel industry. So we can first start with
an example of modernization. Now, in the past we've seen that
reservation systems may have been difficult to work with or
you might have had to call in. But almost all all the airline companies
now have a mobile application. So most of the time, and
we've actually found that it's about, in general not just in
the travel industry, but 80% of all enterprise applications
are actually still on prem. And that's likely the case
in this industry as well. So in this specific example, let's say
they have a reservation system that's running on prem, but to create new
experiences for their end users, let's say they've created
a mobile application. That mobile app, of course, has a mobile
backend that's maybe running in a public cloud and that in turn
works with the reservation service. So, again, the mobile app can
hit the mobile backend and that in turn works with
the reservation capabilities. So in this case they've modernized and
new user experiences are possible. But let's take that a step further. Now, a source for
a lot of dissatisfaction for users is whenever their
flights are delayed. So when a flight is delayed,
they may have to rebook new flights. The solution is almost always the same. The traveler wants to get to his
destination in the easiest way possible. So what airline industries have
been doing is taking advantage of the cloud to create maybe
a recommendation feature. So, it allows them to book new flights
as soon as a delay is recommended or as soon as a delay is incurred. And that's going to connect up to that
mobile back end service, allowing users to be able to book flights through their
phone the second a flight is delayed. This not only improves the bottom line for
the airline industry, but leads to happier users. So that's one way
the modernization has been done. Next, let's take it even a step
further and talk about data and AI. For data and AI, the airline industry has been taking
advantage of lots of historical data. So over the decades that a company
has been around, let's say they have historical data of when unplanned
maintenance has happened on their airline. In fact, 30% of all delay time in
the airline industry is actually when unplanned maintenance happens. So by taking advantage of,
let's say, machine learning or AI capabilities, they could hook into
all of the legacy data that they have, large volumes and connect them up to
machine learning and AI capabilities. This allows airline industries to take
advantage of predictive analytics and get insights before errors or before
the unplanned maintenance ever occurs. This again improves their bottom line, leading to happier users and
a more efficient airline industry. Now, today we talked about four
major use cases for hybrid and multi-cloud platforms. So cloud scaling and composite cloud
in the flower delivery service as well as modernize and data and
AI for the airline industry. >> Another reason for adopting hybrid
multi-cloud strategy is to prevent lock-in to a specific vendor's cloud platform
and having flexibility of being able to move work loads from one cloud
platform to another as the need arises. In the next video, we will understand
what a microservices architecture is, its features, benefits, and use cases. [MUSIC]