Microservices architecture is an approach
in which a single application is composed of many loosely coupled and independently
deployable smaller components or services. These services typically have their own
stack running on their own containers. They communicate with one another
over a combination of APIs, event streaming, and message brokers. For a business, what this means is that
application components can be developed and updated more efficiently by multiple
developers working independently. Teams can use different stacks and runtime
environments for different components. Components facing too much load
can be scaled independently, reducing the waste and cost associated
with having to scale entire applications. In this video, we'll look at how microservices
have shaped application development and also look at a use case
that illustrates microservices in action. >> The way developers work to
build applications is changing. In the past, software was built as large
monolithic applications where a team of developers would take months to construct a large application
built on a common code base. These developers would write every part
of the application from start to finish. Now, after decades of software development, there are vast amounts
of code already out there that developers can use
as the base of an application, meaning they no longer have to create
every line of code from scratch. Cloud development platforms provide
developers with an ecosystem of code that can be easily and
securely integrated into applications. Now, instead of building one
huge application on one team, developers break into small independent teams where they write smaller amounts
of code called microservices. Microservices break down large
applications into their core functions. For example, Search, Recommendations,
Customer Ratings, or Product Catalogs. Each is developed independently of one
another, yet work together on the Cloud development
platform to create a functioning application. A container is the distribution method for
each microservice, meaning it delivers the code
where it needs to go. Containers are plug-and-play, so if one
microservice isn't working for an application, developers can take it out and put in a different one without disrupting
how the rest of the app functions. Check out microservices
in action with Ron: Ron is a soccer fan who uses an online
streaming media service called Dream Game. Last night, he missed watching his team
play their crucial semi-final match. Luckily, he can watch the match
tonight on Dream Game. When he logs in, he sees the most popular
content among all Dream Game users. After some searching,
he finds the match he's looking for. What he would really like is to
find his game with one click. Luckily, the Dream Game development
team is using microservices to develop a better user experience for
viewers like Ron. The first microservice is a Content Catalog housing the millions of games that Dream Game offers. The small team of developers
organizes each piece of content with metadata that describes them. This metadata feeds into a second
microservice: the Search Function, which ensures that Ron's search
results are captured and compared to the Dream Game catalog. The third microservice, Recommendations, captures data about the most
popular content among all Dream Game users. This is what generates the homepage
that Ron saw when he first logged in. These three microservices are all
in their separate containers, ready to join the application. But before they can work together,
they have to find one another. They do this by using something
called Service Discovery, which creates a roadmap for these and
many other microservices to communicate. When microservices find each other, they communicate using an application
programming interface or an API. So when Ron searches for his favorite
soccer team, the Search microservice is communicating
to the Content Catalog (in an API) about what Ron is looking for. Now back to the goal at hand: to get Ron
to his soccer game with just one click. The development team working on the Recommendations
microservice is updating the code, adding an analytics algorithm. Using analytics, the Recommendations
microservice will compare Ron's viewing history and preferences to popular
content among other users, including soccer fans and viewers in Ron's
geographical region and demographic. Since the developers didn't need
to create the code from scratch, they are able to deploy this new
functionality in a matter of days. These updates happen behind the scenes as the rest of the microservice containers
function normally. The next time Ron checks Dream Game,
instead of just seeing the most popular or newest content, he sees a personalized
playlist that will continue to refine itself as the system learns more about
his viewing habits and preferences. The result: Ron finds his favorite
team's latest game right away. The microservice approach lets developers
quickly innovate applications in parallel and lets users like Ron focus on
the things that really interest them. And when those interests are changing and
growing faster every day, microservices help businesses keep up and
grow with their customers. [MUSIC]