Hybrid Cloud is a computing
environment that connects an organization's
on-premise private Cloud and third-party public Cloud, into a single flexible
infrastructure for running the organizations
applications and workloads. The mix of public and
private Cloud resources gives organizations the
flexibility to choose the optimal Cloud for each
application or workload. Workloads move freely between the two Clouds as needs change, organizations can choose to run the sensitive, highly regulated, and mission-critical
applications or workloads with reasonably constant
performance and capacity requirements on
private Cloud infrastructure, while deploying the less sensitive and more
dynamic workloads on the public Cloud. With proper integration and orchestration between the
public and private Clouds, you can leverage both Clouds
for the same workload. For example, you can leverage public Cloud instances
for a period of time, but returned to the private
Cloud when the search is met, also known as
Cloud bursting. The key tenants of
a hybrid Cloud are interoperability,
scalability, and portability. Hybrid Cloud is interoperable, which means that the public
and private Cloud services can understand
each other's APIs, configuration, data formats, and forms of authentication
and authorization. When there's a spike in demand, a workload running on the
private Cloud can leverage the additional public Cloud
capacity making it scalable. A hybrid Cloud is also portable. Since you're no longer locked
in with a specific vendor, you can move applications
and data not just between on-premise
and Cloud systems, but also between Cloud
service providers. Hybrid is about taking
the best of both worlds. There are two common
types of hybrid Clouds, hybrid mono Cloud and
hybrid multi-Cloud. Hybrid mono Cloud is a hybrid Cloud with one
Cloud provider while a hybrid multi-Cloud is an open standards-based
stack that can be deployed on any public
Cloud infrastructure. The difference lies in the flexibility that the
hybrid multi-Cloud offers organizations to
move workloads and environments from one
vendor to another. There's also a variant of hybrid multi-Cloud called
the composite multi-Cloud, which makes this flexibility
even more granular as it distributes single applications across multiple providers, allowing you to move
application components across Cloud services
and vendors as needed. Hybrid Cloud offers
significant benefits in areas of security
and compliance, scalability and resilience, resource optimization
and cost-saving. A hybrid Cloud lets
organizations deploy highly regulated or
sensitive workloads in a private Cloud while running the less sensitive workloads
on a public Cloud. Using a hybrid Cloud, you can scale up
quickly, inexpensively, and even automatically using the public Cloud infrastructure, all without impacting
the other workloads running on your private Cloud. Because you're not
locked in with a specific vendor and also don't have to make
either/or decisions between the different
Cloud models, you can make the most
cost efficient use of your infrastructure budget. You can maintain workloads where they are most efficient, spin up environments using Pay-As-You-Go in
the public Cloud, and rapidly adopt new
tools as you need them. However, hybrid Clouds are
complex and challenging to deploy and maintain since they involve synchronization,
redirection, latency, security,
portability, interoperability, and compatibility of policies, applications and data and so on. A typical organization
will have a range of applications and workloads
spread across private, public, and traditional
IT environments. This represents a range
of opportunities for optimization via a
hybrid Cloud approach. Let's look at some increasingly common Hybrid Cloud use cases. Software-as-a-service integration. Through Hybrid Integration, Organizations are
connecting software-as- -a-service applications
available in the public Cloud to their
existing public Cloud, private Cloud and
traditional IT applications to deliver new solutions. Data and AI integration. Organizations today are creating richer and more personal
experiences by combining new data sources on the public
Cloud, such as weather, social, the Internet of Things, CRM, and ERP, with existing data
and analytics, machine learning and
AI capabilities. Enhancing legacy apps. An increasing number
of organizations are using public Cloud
services to upgrade the user experience of their on-premises
applications and deploy them globally to new devices while incrementally modernizing
their core business systems. VMware migration. More and more organizations are lifting and shifting
their on-premises virtualized workloads to a public Cloud
without conversion or modification to reduce their on-premises
datacenter footprint, and position themselves to scale without added capital expense. Leveraging public
Cloud services. Using the private Cloud, organizations are
integrating data and application services from
their existing applications with public Cloud services. This allows them to leverage
their private Cloud compute capability
for the larger jobs while pulling data
into an application on a private Cloud to leverage
public Cloud services, essentially, opening
their datacenters to work with Cloud services. Hi everyone. My
name is Sai Vennam and I'm a developer
advocate with IBM. Today, I'm excited to introduce a three-part video series on
hybrid Cloud architectures. Hybrid Cloud is a concept that's been around for quite some time, but we're finding that it's
becoming increasingly used to architect and modernize existing
or legacy applications. According to research,
we found that 75% of non-Cloud applications will be moving to the Cloud in
the next three years. This goes to say that
if you're not already thinking about your
hybrid Cloud strategy, you may be falling behind. If you want to learn more about the basics of hybrid Cloud, check out my hybrid Cloud
explained video where I covered the basic concepts of all
hybrid Cloud architectures. In this three-part series, I want to dive deeper and hit on key concepts that make up a
hybrid Cloud architecture. To do that, we're going
to start with Part 1 of this video series
which is going to be connect. Connectivity and
interoperability are core concepts of hybrid
Cloud architectures. You can imagine that you have existing applications
that may be running on-prem working with
maybe a private Cloud, and you can also
imagine you'd be taken advantage of public
Cloud as well. You have services
that are running across all of these environment, we need a way to securely
connect them to one another. Taking advantage of open-source
solutions that we have, things like Linux-based
containers, Kubernetes, Istio, as well as multi cluster management
tools, message queues, brokers, the list is endless but there's a lot of solutions out there
when used properly, help you hit that connectivity that you need with hybrid
Cloud architectures. In Part 2, we want to
talk about modernization. We'll be switching gears
a little bit here. You can imagine that with existing applications
that you may have, you may have a monolithic application that
you want to break apart and move to
a public Cloud, and that might allow you to
take better advantage of scaling the public
environments offer. That's a very simple
use case and one of many when it comes to
modernizing your applications. In Part 2, I'm going to hit
on strategies to modernize those legacy
applications which is a core part of hybrid
Cloud architectures. In Part 3, we want to
talk about security. We're finding that
every year you're hearing about a different
data breach and we're hearing about privacy
regulations that are becoming increasingly more strict
being imposed on companies. The fact is moving
to hybrid Cloud might scare some folks, but we have to write
solutions to ensure that you can take advantage of
your existing On-prem assets, the security, and the ease of use that you
have there while securely moving some of your assets to a public
or even a private Cloud. This allows you to have the comfort taken advantage
of all the resources you have on public Cloud while still maintaining the security that's required of your architectures. I believe that this
three-part series is going to help tackle the three major
issues that you may have when architecting your
hybrid Cloud applications. As always, we're always checking for your comments
and your feedback, and if you have any
other topics that you'd like us to cover and
light boarding videos, please let us know below. Be sure to subscribe and stay
tuned for future videos in this series and if you
want to get started on your hybrid Cloud architecture
journey right now, go ahead and check out some
of the links that we have below and the videos that we
have lined up. Thank you.