In this video, we will discuss the Infrastructure-as-a-Service
model in more detail. Infrastructure-as-a-Service, commonly referred
to as “IaaS,” – or simply “eye-es” - is a form of cloud computing that delivers
fundamental compute, network, and storage resources to consumers on-demand, over the
internet, on a pay-as-you-go basis. The cloud provider hosts the infrastructure
components traditionally present in an on-premises data center as well as the virtualization
or hypervisor layer. In an IaaS Cloud environment, customers can
create or provision virtual machines (or VMs) in their choice of Region and Zone available
from the Cloud Provider. These VMs typically come pre-installed the
customer’s choice of operating system. The customers can then deploy middleware,
install applications, and run workloads on these VMs. They can also and create storage for their
workloads and backups. Cloud providers often provide customers the
ability to track and monitor the performance and usage of their cloud services and manage
disaster recovery. Let’s look at the key components of cloud
infrastructure: Physical data centers: IaaS providers manage
large data centers that contain the physical machines required to power the various layers
of abstraction on top of them. In most IaaS models, end users do not interact
directly with the physical infrastructure but experience it as a service provided to
them. Compute: IaaS providers manage the hypervisors
and end-users programmatically provision virtual instances with desired amounts of compute,
memory, and storage resources. Cloud compute typically comes with supporting
services like auto scaling and load balancing that provide scalability and high performance. Network: Users get access to networking resources
on the cloud through virtualization or programmatically, through APIs. Storage: There are three types of cloud data
storage: object, file, and block storage. Object storage is the most common mode of
storage in the cloud, given that it is highly distributed and resilient. IaaS supports a wide array of use cases. We’ll look at some typical use cases here. Organizations today are using cloud infrastructure
services to enable their teams to set up test and development environments faster, helping
create new applications more quickly. By abstracting the low-level components, cloud
infrastructure is helping developers focus more on business logic than infrastructure
management. Business continuity and disaster recovery
require a significant amount of technology and staff investments. IaaS is helping organizations reduce this
cost and make applications and data accessible as usual during a disaster or outage. Organizations are using cloud infrastructure
to deploy their web applications faster and also scale infrastructure up and down as demand
fluctuates. Organizations are leveraging the high-performance
computing capabilities of cloud infrastructure to solve complex problems involving millions
of variables and calculations such as climate and weather predictions and financial modeling. Mining massive data sets to locate valuable
patterns, trends, and associations requires a huge amount of processing power. Cloud infrastructure not only provides the
required high-performance computing but also makes it economically viable. While there are some concerns regarding the
lack of transparency in the cloud infrastructure’s configuration and management and dependency
on a third-party for workload availability and performance, Infrastructure-as-a-Service
is the fastest growing cloud model today. In the next video, we will look at Platform-as-a-Service
model, its features, benefits, and some use cases