(Music) In our introductory cloud video we briefly talked about the three
service models available on the cloud: Infrastructure as a Service,
Platform as a Service, and Software as a Service.
Before we dive into the details of each of these service models in the
subsequent videos, let's get started with a quick overview of these models. >> Hi, I'm Tessa Rhodes,
and I'm a designer on IBM Cloud. So let's start with the foundation
here with IaaS. IaaS is a set of compute networking and storage resources that have been
virtualized by a vendor so that a user can access and
configure them any way they want. In design we have a concept
of talking about users called personas, and the persona for IaaS is a system admin. Or an IT admin. Let's jump up to the top with
Software as a Service, that's the easy one. Software as
a Service is just software that you don't have to install on your machine
and you don't have to manually update. And so, the user for Software as a Service
could be anyone. In fact, if you're watching this on YouTube right now, then you're a user of Software as a Service.
It's usually charged on a subscription model. rather than a one-time license fee. And that brings us to
Platform as a Service. PaaS takes advantage of all the
virtualized resources from Iaas and then just abstracts them away,
so the user doesn't have to worry about managing any of those virtualized resources. The user for PaaS is not a
system admin, usually. It's usually a dev. In IBM we call this dev "Jane." That's the name of our persona. And so this whole metaphor, the pyramid metaphor,
is meant to indicate that as you move down, you're increasing complexity in terms of your knowledge and
management of infrastructure resources and you're increasing the ease of use. Another metaphor I use when I'm talking
to the designers on my team about PaaS, is having to do with a car. So in this metaphor IaaS
is like leasing a car. So if you've ever leased a car,
you probably did a lot of research, and you care about the specs of the car
and the performance. You care about the color of the car,
what kind of car it is. You're the one driving and
you're paying for it. You're also paying for the gas
and any tolls or maintenance. With Platform as a Service in this metaphor,
that's more like renting a car. So say you're on vacation and you just got off the airport and
you're going to pick up your rental car. You don't really care what color it is.
You don't really even care about the specs of it, but you're still driving and you're paying for
the gas and any tolls you go through. Software as a Service
is again the easiest one. That one's more like getting a taxi or an Uber. So with the taxi or an Uber, you don't care at all
about what kind of car it is, what color it is and in fact, you're not even
the one driving, or paying for gas, or any tolls because that's baked into the price. >>So let's see what it means in terms of
cloud computing and its three service models. With IaaS, the cloud provider manages
the physical resources, data centers, cooling, power,
network and security, as well as computing resources
that include servers and storage. With PaaS the provider,
in addition to the computing resources, also manages the platform infrastructure which includes the operating systems,
development tools, databases, and business analytics. In the SaaS model, in addition to the
infrastructure and the platform resources, the provider also hosts and
manages the applications and data. In the next video, we'll take a closer
look at Infrastructure-as-a-Service its features, benefits, and some use cases.