[MUSIC] Platform as a service,
commonly referred to as P-a-a-S or simply, PaaS,
is a cloud computing model that provides customers a complete platform to develop,
deploy, manage and run applications created by them or
acquired from a third party. The PaaS provider hosts everything:
servers, networks, storage, operating system, application runtimes,
APIs, middleware, databases and
other tools at their data center. The provider also takes responsibility for
the installation, configuration, and operation of
the application infrastructure, leaving the user responsible for only
the application code and its maintenance. Customers pay for this service on a usage
basis and purchase resources on demand. With IaaS, the cloud provider
offers access to raw computing resources such as servers,
storage, and networking, while the user is responsible for
the platform and application software. With P-a-a-S or PaaS,
the cloud service provider delivers and manages the entire
platform infrastructure, abstracting users from the lower
level details of the environment. Let's look at some essential characteristics
of platform as a service or PaaS. PaaS clouds are distinguished by the high
level of abstraction they provide to the users, eliminating the complexity
of deploying applications, configuring infrastructure,
and provisioning and configuring supporting technologies like load balancers and databases. PaaS clouds provide services and APIs
that help simplify the job of developers in delivering elastically scalable and
highly available cloud applications. These services typically include a variety
of capabilities such as APIs for distributing, caching,
queuing and messaging, file and data storage,
workload management, user identity, and analytics, thus eliminating the need
to integrate disparate components. The PaaS runtime environment
executes end user code according to policies set by the application owner and
cloud provider. Many of the PaaS offerings provide
developers with rapid deployment mechanisms or push and run mechanism for
deploying and running applications. PaaS offerings support a range of
application infrastructure or middleware capabilities such as application servers,
database management systems, business analytics servers,
mobile backend services, integration services,
business process management systems, rules engines, and
complex event processing systems. Such an application infrastructure assists
developers by reducing the amount of code that must be written while expanding
the application's functional capabilities. The most important use case for
PaaS is strategic, build, test, deploy, enhance and scale applications
rapidly and cost effectively. Let's look at some more use cases for
PaaS. API development and management. Organizations are using PaaS to develop,
run, manage and secure APIs and microservices, which are loosely coupled, independently
deployable components and services. Internet of Things, or IoT: PaaS clouds support a broad range
of application environments, programming languages, and
tools used for IoT deployments. Business analytics, or intelligence: PaaS tools allow organizations to
analyze their data to find business insights that enable more informed
business decisions and predictions. Business Process management, or BPM. Organizations are using
the PaaS cloud to access BPM platform delivered as a service. Master data management, or MDM: Organizations are leveraging the PaaS
cloud to provide a single point of reference for critical business data,
such as information about customer transactions and analytical
data to support decision-making. Let's look at some
advantages of using PaaS. Scalability, made possible because
of the rapid allocation and deallocation of resources with
a pay-as-you-use model offered by PaaS. The APIs support services and middleware
capabilities that PaaS clouds provide assist developers in focusing their
efforts on application development and testing, resulting in faster time-to-market
for their products and services. Middleware capabilities also reduce
the amount of code that need to be written while expanding the application's
functional capabilities. Greater agility and innovation:
because using PaaS platforms means that you can experiment with
multiple operating systems, languages and tools without having
to invest in these resources. You can evaluate and prototype
ideas with very low risk exposure, resulting in faster, easier, less risky
adoption of a wider range of resources. Some of the key PaaS offerings
available in the market today include AWS Elastic Beanstalk,
Cloud Foundry, IBM Cloud Paks, Windows Azure,
Red Hat OpenShift, Magento Commerce Cloud,
force.com, and Apache Stratos. PaaS clouds do come with some risks,
risks that all cloud offerings have in general, such as information security threats and dependency on the service
provider's infrastructure. Services can get impacted when
a service provider's infrastructure experiences downtime. Customers also don't have any direct
control over the changes that may take place when a provider makes changes in
its strategy, service offerings or tools. But the benefits can far
outweigh these risks. PaaS continues to experience
strong growth and is predicted to become the prevailing
platform delivery model moving forward. In the next video, we will look
at software as a service model, its features, benefits,
and some use cases. [MUSIC]