The National Institute of
Standards and Technology defines private cloud as cloud infrastructure provisioned
for exclusive use by a single organization
comprising multiple consumers, such as the business units
within the organization. It may be owned, managed, and operated by
the organization, a third party or some
combination of them, and it may exist on
or off premises. Private cloud platforms can be implemented internally
or externally. When the platform
is provisioned over an organization's
internal infrastructure, it runs on-premises
and is owned, managed, and operated
by the organization. When it is provisioned over a cloud providers
infrastructure, it is owned, managed, and operated by the
service provider. This external private cloud
offering that resides on a cloud service providers
infrastructure is called a Virtual Private Cloud or VPC. A VPC is a public cloud offering that lets an
organization establish its own private and secure cloud-like
computing environment in a logically isolated part
of a shared public cloud. Using a VPC, organizations can leverage the dynamic
scalability, high availability, and lower cost of ownership
of a public cloud, while having the
infrastructure and security tailored to the
organization's unique needs. Virtual Private Cloud are offered by most public
cloud providers, such as IBM and Amazon. A private cloud is a virtualized
environment modeled to bring in the benefits of a public cloud platform without the perceived disadvantages of an open-end shared
public platform. Users of a private cloud, such as developers and business units in an
organization still get to leverage benefits such as economies of scale,
granular scale, operational
efficiencies, and users self-service while exercising
full control over access, security and
compliances specific to their organization
and business. Private cloud provide
you with; one, the ability to
leverage the value of cloud computing using
systems that are directly managed or under perceived control of the
organization's internal IT. Two, the ability to better utilize internal
computing resources, such as the organization's
existing investments in hardware and software,
thereby reducing costs. Three, better
scalability through virtualization and
cloud bursting. That is, leveraging
public cloud instances for a period of time, but returning to
the private cloud when the surge is meet. Four, controlled access
and greater security measures customized to
specific organizational needs. Five, the ability to expand
and provision things in a relatively short amount of time, providing greater agility. Organizations may
choose to opt for private cloud because
of various reasons, because their
applications provide a unique competitive advantage. There are security and
regulatory concerns, or because their data is
highly sensitive and subject to strict industry or
governmental regulations. Let's look at some common use
cases for a private cloud. One, a private cloud is an opportunity for
organizations to modernize and unify their in-house and legacy
applications. Moving these applications from their dedicated hardware to
the cloud also allows them to leverage the power of
the compute resources and multiple services
available on the cloud. Two, using the private cloud, organizations are integrating data and application services from their existing applications with public cloud services. This allows them to leverage their private cloud's
compute capability for the larger jobs while pulling data
into an application on a private cloud to leverage
public cloud services. Essentially, opening
their data centers to work with cloud services. Three, application portability is a key feature of
cloud platforms. Using the private cloud gives organizations the ability
to build applications anywhere and move them
anywhere without having to compromise security and
compliance in the process. Four, some of the
key reasons that may prevent an
organization for moving to a public cloud
include security and regulatory concerns
and data sensitivity. A private cloud offers
these organizations the benefits of on-demand
enterprise resources while exercising full control
over critical security and compliance issues from within the environment of
their dedicated cloud