In our introductory cloud video we briefly
mentioned the four deployment models for cloud. In this video, we will discuss the Public
Cloud deployment model in more detail. Deployment models indicate where the infrastructure
resides, who owns and manages it, and how cloud resources and services are made available
to users. The four cloud deployment models include—Public
Cloud, Private Cloud, Community Cloud and Hybrid Cloud. In a public cloud model, users get access
to servers, storage, network, security, and applications as services delivered by cloud
service providers over the internet. Using web consoles and APIs, users can provision
the resources and services they need. The cloud provider owns, manages, provisions,
and maintains the infrastructure, renting it out to customers either for a subscription
charge or usage-based fee. Users don’t own the servers their applications
run on or storage their data consumes, or manage the operations of the servers, or even
determine how the platforms are maintained. In very much the same way that we consume
and pay for utilities such as water, electricity, or gas in our everyday lives, we don’t own
any of these cloud resources—we make an agreement with the service provider, use the
resources, and pay for what we use within a certain period. Public clouds offer significant cost savings
in terms of Total Cost for Ownership (TCO) as the provider bears all the capital, operational,
and maintenance expenses for the infrastructure and the facilities they are hosted in. It makes scalability as easy as requesting
more capacity. However, with a public cloud, the user does
not have any control over the computing environment and is subject to the performance and security
of the cloud provider’s infrastructure. There are several public cloud providers in
the market today, such as Amazon Web Services, Microsoft Azure, IBM Cloud, Google Cloud Platform,
and Alibaba Cloud. While all providers include a common set of
core services, such as servers, storage, network, security, and databases, they also offer a
wide spectrum of niche services with varied payment options. Let’s talk about some of the characteristics
of a public cloud: A public cloud is a virtualized multi-tenant
architecture enabling tenants or users to share computing resources, residing outside
their firewalls The cloud provider's pool of resources, including
infrastructure, platforms, and software, are NOT dedicated for use by a single tenant or
organization Resources are distributed on an as-needed
basis offered through a variety of subscription and pay-as-you-go models. Public clouds have significant benefits; we’ll
go over some of these benefits here: Vast on-demand resources are available, allowing
applications to respond seamlessly to fluctuations in demand. Considering the large number of users that
share the centralized cloud resources on-demand, the public cloud offers the most significant
economies of scale. The sheer number of server and network resources
available on the public cloud means that a public cloud is highly available —if one
physical component fails, the service still runs unaffected on the remaining available
components. It’s also important to note some concerns
users have regarding public clouds—key among them being security and data sovereignty compliance. Security issues such as data breaches, data
loss, account hijacking, insufficient due diligence, and system and application vulnerability
seem to be some of the fears users continue to have concerning security in the public
cloud. With data being stored in different locations
and accessed across national borders, it has also become increasingly critical for companies
to be compliant with data sovereignty regulations governing the storage, transfer, and security
of data. A service provider’s ability to not just
keep up with the regulations, but also the interpretation of these regulations, is a
concern shared by many businesses Let’s look at some common use cases for
public cloud: Organizations are increasingly opting to access
cloud-based applications and platforms so their teams can focus on building and testing
applications, and reducing time-to-market for their products and services. Businesses with fluctuating capacity and resourcing
needs are opting for the public cloud. Organizations are using public cloud computing
resources to build secondary infrastructures for disaster recovery, data protection, and
business continuity. More and more organizations are using cloud
storage and data management services for greater accessibility, easy distribution, and backing
up their data. IT departments are outsourcing the management
of less critical and standardized business platforms and applications to pubic cloud
providers. In the next video, we will look at the private
cloud model, its features, benefits, and some use cases.