Software-as-a-Service, or “SaaS,” is a cloud
offering that provides users with access to a service provider’s cloud-based software.
SaaS providers maintain the servers, databases, and code that constitute an application.
They also manage access to the application, including security, availability, and performance.
Applications reside on a remote cloud network, and users use these applications without having
to maintain and update the infrastructure. Core business processes supported by SaaS today
include email and collaboration via offerings such as Microsoft's Office 365 and Google's Gmail,
Customer Relationship Management via services such as NetSuite CRM and Salesforce, Human
Resource Management via services from Workday and SAP SuccessFactors, financial management,
billing and collaboration, and many more. According to Forrester Research, SaaS has
overtaken on-premises solutions in categories such as human capital management (HCM), customer
relationship management (CRM), and collaboration. Solutions once available with several
different deployment options are now SaaS-only: Let’s look at key characteristics
of Software-as-a-Service: SaaS clouds have a multitenant architecture.
Infrastructure and code are maintained centrally and accessed by all users.
SaaS makes it easy for users to manage privileges, monitor data use, and ensure everyone
sees the same information at the same time. Security, compliance, and maintenance
are all part of the offering. In SaaS, customizations are often limited, however some SaaS applications may allow
certain types of customizations like branding; they can modify data fields and enable or
disable features within the business process. These customizations are
preserved through upgrades. Users pay for the use of the
services via a subscription model. The use of resources can be scaled
easily, depending on service needs. Key benefits of adopting SaaS: Businesses can directly procure solutions
without upfront capital and assistance from IT, greatly reducing the time from
decision to value from months to days. SaaS greatly increases workforce
productivity and efficiency. Users can access core business apps from wherever;
they can also buy and deploy apps in minutes reducing the typical obstacles enterprises
have to test the products they might use. Using SaaS applications, individuals
and small enterprises can spread out their software costs over time.
Let’s look at some use cases for SaaS: Organizations are moving to SaaS for
their core business needs as part of their strategic transformation to reduce on-premises
IT infrastructure and reduce capital expenditure. Organizations are leveraging SaaS to avoid
the need for ongoing upgrades, maintenance, and patching, done traditionally by internal
IT resources; applications run reliably with minimal input, for example, email servers and
office collaboration and productivity tools. Organizations are increasingly opting for SaaS
eCommerce Platforms to manage their websites, marketing, sales, and operations.
With SaaS, organizations are able to take advantage of the resilience and
business continuity of the cloud provider. Enterprises are now developing SaaS integration
platforms (or SIPs) for building additional SaaS applications, moving SaaS beyond
standalone software functionality to a platform for mission-critical applications.
SaaS does evoke some concerns, as well. Primary among them being data
ownership and data safety. Security is an important consideration when
you’re allowing a third-party to maintain business-critical data.
And application access relies on a good network connection.
But the benefits far outweigh the concerns, with SaaS making up the largest
segment of the cloud market today.