[Music] Welcome to Cloud Computing Service
Models - Expert Viewpoints. In this video we will listen to several
cloud experts discuss the choice and adoption of different cloud models. Can you talk about use case scenarios or
considerations for choosing the right cloud model for
your organization? Model as in IaaS, SaaS or PasS; or public, private, or hybrid. When choosing a cloud model for
your organization, you want to consider where is your
organization at in the cloud journey? So if they have a lease that's about
to expire at the data center, then they might not have time to rewrite
the application to be cloud native. They might just have time to take
the application exactly as it is on the virtual machines in
the data center, and move them onto virtual
machines in the cloud. That's called Infrastructure-as-a-Service. If you have more time,
you could consider re-platforming, and that means putting it on
a Platform-as-a-Service, such as Containers, or a service that
operates the operating system for you, patches the operating system for
you and all you have to do is install
extra dependencies yourself. Or if you want to move really fast and you have a brand new product that
you're just starting to write, why not start with the latest approach,
which is Functions-as-a-Service? Use serverless functions,
and you can move really fast because you don't have to manage
any underlying infrastructure. The security of the operating
system is handled for you by the cloud provider. Generally, my answer is to stay as
high on the stack as you can to meet your business requirements. So SaaS applications provide
the business value with little or no technology resource investment
beyond the subscriptions. So if that works, that's great. Platform-as-a-Service, as I mentioned, allows developers to focus on building and
deploying new applications without having to grapple with
the details of cloud infrastructure. And if [COUGH] in a lot of cases that
will save money and investment and allow you to focus on building your
products more quickly in time to market. Infrastructure-as-a-Service though, is the right answer when you need
specific control of all the compute and network resources to achieve
your business goals. So in many cases that'll make sense too. While choosing the right cloud model, organizations should consider
what are their business needs, the level of control that they
would like to have, and the cost. If your business needs an out of
the box software like email, CRM, event management tool, etc,
then choose Software-as-a-Service. It will offer access from anywhere and
any device, automatic software updates,
low cost and easy adoptions. You will need a vendor
to manage the software. If you require a platform for
building products, then choose Platform-as-a-Service. It is a perfect choice for software
development companies, as it provides developers with reduced development time,
different programming language support, easy collaboration with teams,
and reduces the cost. If your business simply needs
a virtual machine, then opt for Infrastructure-as-a-Service. Scenarios for
using Infrastructure-as-a-Service can be hosting a website, virtual data
centers or performing data analysis. Infrastructure-as-a-Service is more
expensive than SaaS or PaaS and all issues related to virtual machine
management is businesses responsibility. However, it is more reliable and secure as
data is kept at designated data centers. As you move down the layers of
abstraction from Software-as-a-Service all the way to Infrastructure-as-a-Service, the tradeoff is that you take on more
management responsibilities yourself with the advantage of having more control
over how your resources are configured. I'll typically only take that
tradeoff when I have to. So let's say I'm building a website. I'll typically default to a
Software-as-a-Service option, let's say WordPress. But then maybe it turns out the website
I'm building is somewhat complicated and I want it to be a react app. I might host that app on
a Platform-as-a-Service, but then let's suppose I have a requirement
that my app needs to run in an operating system that is not supported
by the Platform-as-a-Service. At that point I'll have to just
provision some VMs myself and figure out how to run it myself. [MUSIC]