Welcome to Cloud Adoption Benefits
and Usecases – Expert Viewpoints. In this video, we will listen to several cloud
application professionals discuss cloud adoption. According to you, what are some
of the most compelling reasons for businesses to adopt cloud technologies? One of the biggest reasons for a business
to adopt cloud technologies is the sheer speed it gives you to move forward and
enhance your products. For example, every industry has its own needs, and
every business has its own specific needs, and a lot of these needs are already met with
services and technologies available in the cloud. You can quite frankly stand on the shoulders
of giants with cloud technologies--you don’t need to create AI algorithms yourself, you
can use AI services. You don’t need to worry about building a machine, connecting it to
the internet—those are already provided to you. The best thing about the cloud is how easy and
how fast it is to just get going, and to get really specialized stuff going without
needing that specialization yourself. By using cloud computing,
businesses pay only for services they use, which help in reducing their
infrastructure and operating costs. Machines can be deployed and used within
a matter of minutes. The infrastructure can be scaled elastically to
meet the growing business needs. As cloud computing services runs on variety
of secure data centers around the world, there is reduced network latencies for
applications and greater economies of scale. Cloud computing also make data backups
and recovery services less expensive along with providing policies
for higher levels of security. Cloud technologies allow businesses to focus
entirely on their core business model, and let the cloud handle other components. For example,
if my business is not pertaining to databases, then I don't want to worry about managing and deploying a database. I can
offload that to the cloud. And I'm guaranteed a highly available
and distributed database for my business, allowing me and my engineers to focus on what
actually matters for my application and my users. With high performance compute in the
cloud, you can have extremely fast clusters of computers at your fingertips,
and only pay for them when you need them. And thanks to the cloud, smaller companies are
able to set up high performance compute clusters and innovate rapidly. For me, the most compelling reason
to adopt cloud technologies is that you typically only pay for what you use. I mean, so there's a very low barrier to entry, you can typically start trying something out
with an hourly billing plan and no upfront costs. Another compelling reason is to take advantage of the high level of service
that the cloud can provide. So for example, I need access to databases.
I want them to be highly available and fast and have regular backups, but I'm not
in the business of database management, and if I have the option of getting someone else
to manage that for me, I will typically take it. And finally, time-to-market pressure to build
new products. We’re seeing many or perhaps most startups using cloud platforms to build and deploy
their products quickly and with less expense. One is that your business requires a
global footprint. Its quite likely that your business cannot afford global data
centers, so that’s one very obvious one. Another one is your business
requires elastic resources. Think of retail and e-commerce
during high-demand holidays; think of live event ticketing, maybe HR and Healthcare annual enrollment. Basically, any application where
demand is highly variable or spiky. Another interesting one is
large scale analytics or development of data pipelines and machine learning. On-premises physical resources are possibly
too small, too expensive, or underutilized. Another good one is cybersecurity. I think
you have to assess whether your organization can really address cybersecurity at the same
level as IBM or the other cloud providers.