[MUSIC] Welcome to Overview of
Cloud Computing: Definition and Essential Characteristics
- Expert Viewpoints. In this video we will listen to several cloud native and
application development professionals discuss the definition of cloud computing and
cloud computing's unique attributes. How do you define cloud computing and
what are some of its attributes? >> As a cloud native developer, cloud computing basically boils
down to two things for me. First, it is on demand and
second, it is self-serving. So what that means is as a developer,
I should be able to log into a portal and get the exact amount of
services that I need. I'm not waiting around for procurement or infrastructure services to assign
something or provision something for me. And this is true for the whole stack, ranging from infrastructure to
platform to solution as a service. >> To me, cloud computing is
the ability to deploy code or infrastructure anywhere in the world and
at scale. Some of the key characteristics
include distribution, high availability,
resiliency and scalability. >> Cloud computing refers to the delivery
of computing services that can include servers, database, networking,
analytics, etc, over Internet or cloud. Key attributes of cloud computing
are flexible cost, global scale, reduced time to deploy resources,
higher productivity and performance, and higher reliability and security. >> To me, cloud computing
means unlimited compute, database, machine learning capacity and the ability to work with
that in an instant. Unlike with data centers where you
need to order all those things, set it up and manage the availability
of it yourself, with cloud computing, the cloud provider manages
the physical security of the service for you and all you do is manage the stuff on it. >> I would summarize cloud computing
as a suite of API driven services to manage all aspects of compute networking
resources for enterprise computing. You could think of it as virtualized
resources defined by software. Some other key characteristics are the resources are elastic and can
grow or shrink with demand, think of e-commerce on
high demand holidays. Also, the computing costs are dynamic, so instead of capital expenditures for
hardware, you have operating expenses for
cloud resources. >> To me, cloud computing is not
a yes or no, it's really a scale. And everything uses cloud computing,
or almost everything does nowadays. The idea is that you can dip your toes in, just use cloud computing for a little bit like authentication, use some social login so people can log in with their
Facebook or their Google login, or you can go all the way in
and have your entire project hosted on a cloud based infrastructure. The point is that both of those
leverage cloud technologies really whenever you reach into that [LAUGH] void
of the cloud and take compute power or something else,
storage, it doesn't matter that is using a cloud technology. And I think
that's really important to understand, almost everything is the cloud nowadays. >> There's a joke that cloud computing is just
using someone else's computer over the Internet, that's only very narrowly true. What cloud computing actually gives
you is a degree of availability, consistency, and scalability that you very likely would not be able
to achieve running your own machines. At its best, cloud computing allows you to
abstract away the management of the things you probably don't care about and focus
on the things that you do care about. >> With high performance
compute in the cloud, you can have extremely fast
clusters of computers at your fingertips and only pay for
them when you need them. And thanks to the cloud,
smaller companies are able to set up high performance compute clusters and
innovate rapidly. [MUSIC]