Welcome to “Getting started with Jupyter.” After watching this video, you will be able to: Describe how to run, insert,
and delete a cell in a notebook. Work with multiple notebooks. Present the notebook, and shut down the notebook session. In the lab session of this module, you can launch a notebook using the
Skills Network virtual environment. After selecting the check
box, click the Open tool tab, and the environment will open the Jupyter Lab. Here you see the open notebook. On opening the notebook, you can
change the name of the notebook. Click File. Then click Rename Notebook to give the required name. And you can now start working on your new notebook. In the new notebook, print “hello world”. Then click the Run button to show that the
environment is giving the correct output. On the main menu bar at the top, click Run. In the drop-down menu, click Run Selected
Cells to run the current highlighted cells. Alternatively, you can use a
shortcut, press Shift + Enter. In case you have multiple code cells, click
Run All cells to run the code in all the cells. You can add code by inserting a new cell. To add a new cell, click the
plus symbol in the toolbar. In addition, you can delete a cell. Highlight the cell and on the main menu bar,
click Edit, and then click Delete Cells. Alternatively, you can use a shortcut by
pressing D twice on the highlighted cell. Also, you can move the cells
up or down as required. So, now you have learned to work with a single notebook. Next, let’s learn to work with multiple notebooks. Click the plus button on the toolbar
and select the file you want to open. Another notebook will open. Alternatively, you can click
File on the menu bar and click Open a new launcher or Open a new notebook. And when you open the new file,
you can move them around. For example, as shown, you can
place the notebooks side by side. On one notebook, you can assign variable
one to the number 1, and variable two to the number 2 and then you can print the
result of adding the numbers one and two. As a data scientist, it is important
to communicate your results. Jupyter supports presenting results
directly from the notebooks. You can create a Markdown to add titles and text descriptions to help with
the flow of the presentation. To add markdown, click Code and select Markdown. You can create line plots and
convert each cell and output into a slide or sub-slide in
the form of a presentation. The slides functionality in Jupyter allows
you to deliver code, visualization, text, and outputs of the executed
code as part of a project. Now, when you have completed working with your
notebook or notebooks, you can shut them down. Shutting down notebooks release their memory. Click the stop icon on the sidebar,
it is the second icon from the top. You can terminate all sessions at
once or shut them down individually. And after you shut down the notebook session,
you will see “no kernel” at the top right. This confirms it is no longer
active, you can now close the tabs. In this video, you learned how to: Run, delete, and insert a code cell. Run multiple notebooks at the same time. Present a notebook using a combination
of Markdown and code cells. And shut down your notebook sessions
after you have completed your work.