Welcome to “Introduction to Python”. After watching this video, you will be able to identify the users of Python. List the benefits of using Python. Describe the diversity and inclusion
efforts of the Python community. Python is a powerhouse of a language. It is the most widely used and most popular programming language used in
the data science industry. According to the 2019 Kaggle Data
Science and Machine Learning Survey, ¾ of the over 10,000 respondents worldwide
reported that they use Python regularly. Glassdoor reported that in
2019 more than 75% of data science positions listed included
Python in their job descriptions. When asked which language an aspiring
data scientist should learn first, most data scientists say Python. Let’s start with the people who use Python. If you already know how to program, then Python is great for you because
it uses clear and readable syntax. You can develop the same programs from other
languages with lesser code using Python. For beginners, Python is a good
language to start with because of the huge global community
and wealth of documentation. Several different surveys done
in 2019 established that over 80% of data professionals use Python worldwide. Python is useful in many areas including data
science, AI and machine learning, web development, and Internet of Things (IoT)
devices, like the Raspberry Pi. Large organizations that
heavily use python include IBM, Wikipedia, Google, Yahoo!, CERN, NASA,
Facebook, Amazon, Instagram, Spotify, and Reddit. Python is widely supported by a global community
and shepherded by the Python Software Foundation. Python is a high-level, general-purpose programming language that can be applied
to many different classes of problems. It has a large, standard library
that provides tools suited to many different tasks including but not limited to Databases, Automation, Web scraping,
Text processing, Image processing, Machine learning, and Data analytics. For data science, you can use Python's scientific computing libraries like Pandas,
NumPy, SciPy, and Matplotlib. For artificial intelligence, it has
TensorFlow, PyTorch, Keras, and Scikit-learn. Python can also be used for Natural Language Processing (NLP) using
the Natural Language Toolkit (NLTK). Another great selling point for Python is that the
Python community has a well-documented history of paving the way for diversity and inclusion
efforts in the tech industry as a whole. The Python language has a code of conduct
executed by the Python Software Foundation that seeks to ensure safety and inclusion for all, in both online and in-person Python communities. Communities like PyLadies
seek to create spaces for people interested in learning Python
in safe and inclusive environments. PyLadies is an international mentorship
group with a focus on helping more women become active participants and leaders
in the Python open-source community. In this video, you learned that Python uses clear and readable syntax. Python has a huge global community
and a wealth of documentation. For data science, you can use python's scientific computing libraries like Pandas,
NumPy, SciPy, and Matplotlib. Python can also be used for
Natural Language Processing (NLP) using the Natural Language Toolkit (NLTK). Python community has a well-documented history of paving the way for diversity and inclusion
efforts in the tech industry as a whole.