Welcome to Your Career in Cloud
Computing – Expert Viewpoints. In this video, we will listen to several cloud application professionals discuss
career opportunities in cloud computing, for example, cloud developer, architect,
SRE, or networking specialist. First of all, the cloud native
landscape is very diverse. It's very intimidating. So, when you see the cloud native
computing foundation map of different layers and different solutions in each
layer, it can get quite scary very fast. So, my first advice to anybody entering
cloud computing field would be to really get a solid foundation and
understanding of the basics. How is developing for cloud different than developing something on your laptop or
on a single server or a small cluster? So, think about how you would architect your application differently for
the cloud computing world? How would you split it up into
smaller services that talk to each other instead of creating a big monolith? And why does that matter? If you want a job in a cloud-related
profession, I would realize for the first part that almost all the tools that
the actual professionals use are available. Many are open source, and many have free
versions just out there on the internet. So, I think the most important thing
is just go and get your hands dirty. Use the tools that the
professionals use, start learning. There's so much free education out there, and so many resources in the internet, quite
frankly, to get you almost all the way there. But reading only goes so far. So, use the tools, run the code, create
the code, do whatever you need to do. And honestly, if you start creating projects, that's going to be one of the most attractive
things to a recruiter, in my personal opinion. I think it's really important to
never stop learning and to always apply what you learn to projects, whether
they're at home at work or at school. My second advice to beginners will be
to try different cloud platforms and see how an application is approached or
architected in these different platforms. You can learn a lot by looking
at different architectures. To start a career in cloud related
professions start learning on your own from different sources, you can
start by learning basic cloud concepts. Learn about the various career opportunities
that cloud computing has to offer. Once you know which profession interests you the
most, enroll in a specialized course for the same. Get hands-on knowledge by creating some projects on your own and hosting them
on your GitHub repository. Once you are confident of your skills, it
is always a good idea to get certified. Keep yourself informed about the different
opportunities in companies and keep applying. The advice I would give to someone who’s
thinking about a career as a cloud architect, is, if you don’t have any years of experience, just get a certification to start out with
or get a feel, you’ll instantly become validated in front of recruiters. And even if you don’t have the battle experience
of making mistakes yourself in production, you will be able to understand
the high level of the services and then get into the weeds when the time comes. One thing you got to be comfortable with
with cloud development is learning all the time. Because all the services
are changing all the time. And you can’t be an expert at anything,
really, because it’s changing all the time. So be comfortable with all the ambiguity. Here are a couple of suggestions for you. One is to get certified from one or
more of the cloud providers, IBM, AWS, Microsoft, or Google Cloud. And to do that, I would recommend taking advantage
of cost-effective online courses like those offered by Coursera to
ensure that you gain the knowledge you need to both pass the
certification exam and to you know, perform the job that you’re after
and succeed in your cloud journey. And then I would recommend augmenting your certification with some hands-on
experience either obtained on the job or by taking advantage of guided projects on Coursera or even experimenting
with your own hands-on projects. In the case of Coursera guided projects,
they're designed to provide you with hands-on experience with some
skill and approximately two hours. And try things out in the cloud. So just get your hands dirty, and spin
up a virtual machine in the cloud. Spin up a function. Write a
function, make it go to a queue, which goes to another function. Just try
hooking things up together in the cloud. And one more thing about the career advice,
once you get your cloud certification, put that on LinkedIn, because recruiters
search for cloud certifications. And that’s pretty much a
guaranteed interview for you. And my final advice would be
always be ready to skill up. This landscape in this cloud
native world changes really fast. And you have to be on your toes and always learning new things and new
technologies and frameworks.