[MUSIC] Welcome to components of
Cloud Computing expert viewpoints. In this video, we will listen to several
cloud application professionals discuss some of the factors considered in deciding
between computing resources in the cloud. For example, a Bare Metal server versus
a virtual server versus containers. Virtual servers are basically
running a different OS inside of another operating system. An example would be running
Windows on top of Linux, and as such they contain
their own complete OS. So VMs look and
act very much like physical servers. And because they contain the whole OS, they're typically gigabytes in size,
quite large. VMs are far less portable
because of their dependence on the operating system,
the application and library versions. So that's a consideration
with virtual machines. When it comes to deciding between
containers virtual servers and bare metal servers, I'm almost always
drawn to containers to start because of their scalability and
their cost efficiency. However, that doesn't mean
they're always the best option. For example, you might not be able to
tolerate your containers running on the same VM as another customer's for
security reasons. And in that case you might decide to
provision your own virtual server. Or perhaps you just consistently need
the best performance possible and you don't want to deal with the hypervisor
tax or noisy neighbor effects. And in that case you'll
go with bare metal. Containers are based on a Linux
based shared image that can be shared across environments,
Dev, QA, and production. And this is one very big
advantage of containers. It's also possible to spin
up containers very fast milliseconds instead of seconds for
virtual machines. They're lightweight,
typically megabytes in size, and the key technologies here are Docker,
Kubernetes and OpenShift for container orchestration. And some of the compelling use
cases here are where workloads can be broken into the smallest
serviceable units. Here you could think about microservices,
for example, and this is perhaps
a foundational technology for what's referred to as
cloud native architecture. If you want to have something
that doesn't cost as much and only runs when needed, that's a perfect
use case for serverless functions. Because on some cloud
providers they only charge you as little as by
the millisecond of usage and serverless functions
help you not use any time on work like patching
the operating system. And if you want to be cloud agnostic, meaning you want to have
a hybrid cloud setup, meaning be on different cloud
providers at the same time, then containers can be
a really good choice because Docker runs the same anywhere. So in the past few years I've actually
seen containers come quite a long way, especially in the enterprise space with
Kubernetes and OpenShift and other things. Quite frankly, containers can run almost any workload
you might want to throw at it. There are some exceptions, sometimes you need a special video
card in a bare metal machine or need to access kernel level settings and
the like, which you can't in a container. But for the most part I would say
you're going to use containers or serverless unless you have
a specific need not to. Bare Metal servers
are basically a single tenant dedicated hardware server. This is our legacy hardware approach. Advantages you can optimize the server
according to the specific needs for performance, security, and reliability. The disadvantages, however,
are limits on demand scalability that the hardware
has a fixed capacity and flat monthly pricing for
bare metal servers. Use cases, there are use cases where
bare metal servers make sense. Some of these might be things
requiring very high performance. Think about gaming or
real time analytics or situations where regulatory or
compliance requirements dictate a dedicated compute environment. Or applications that use steady and
continuous compute resources. If you need extreme speed and
a lot of processing power, let's say you're iterating over
a design for a supersonic jet and you need to model how it would
act in a wind tunnel and you need to do that 500 times. That's a whole lot of data to process. And you want to use the most
powerful machines in a cluster and have them be as close
together as possible, so that's bare metal machines. [MUSIC]