[MUSIC] Welcome to cloud storage
expert viewpoints. In this video, we will listen to
several cloud application professionals discuss the factors for
selecting cloud storage. Can you talk about some of the factors
you consider while deciding on the most appropriate cloud storage for
your needs? >> So when I'm looking to get
cloud storage for my projects, I'm looking at three main things. First, how much is it going to cost me? Second, what is the speed of data input,
output from the storage? And third, how long is it
going to be available to me? Storage can actually be quite complicated. Often, you have to use different
types of storages, but the first question you need to ask is,
what is the storage being used for? How fast does it need to be? How many people are using it, how often? Very important to consider
how much is it going to cost? And cost can actually be tricky because
it's not only the amount of storage you use, but often how often and
how much you access it. So I would say really understand what
you need to use this storage for and then factor in all those different
things into your answer and it'll hopefully help lead
you to the right storage or multiple storages you need to
use to solve your problem. >> So
factors to consider when deciding on your cloud storage needs include cost,
performance, security, and operational ease of use. >> When you're deciding on cloud storage, you're typically deciding between
file block and object storage. File storage will have the interface
that's most familiar to most people. It's essentially a file system just
like the one that you have on your local computer. It supports multiple clients mounting
it for concurrent access, and that's typically been the reason that I've
went with it in the times that I have. Block storage does not support
concurrent access, but it has very low latency and
it's typically the storage of choice for performance intensive
applications like databases. Object storage, on the other hand,
tends to be the go to for when you have large unstructured data
that is not modified very often. So, for example,
large data sets, video files, database backups, that kind of thing. >> Storage can be characterized a number
of ways depending on the type of storage. One type is object storage. A second type is block storage,
file storage such as NFS or database storage, SQL or NoSQL services. >> Now,
there are different classes of storage or categories of storage that you
can get on cloud computing. If I'm working with an application and
I want to store end user data or some sort of configuration,
then I'm looking at cloud object storage. Cloud object storage, while slow,
gives me this unlimited space or buckets that I can create
within the cloud object store. If I'm looking for a little bit faster
where speed is of importance, for example, storage for a database,
then I might look at block level storage. This storage works on fiber networks,
and so it's a little bit faster than working off of the Internet
like in cloud object storage. And then the third category
is the file storage. The downside of file storage is it's
a little bit slower than block storage. However, because file storage is mounted
on a certain server, I'm able to use it as a common storage for multiple applications
and for multiple servers on my end. >> With a object storage,
you may get nice and low cost, but you might not get
the highest or the lowest latency. Because with object storage, every time you're updating a tiny
amount of a file, you're just updating, let's say one letter of a file,
you have to update the whole object. And so you're paying for
all of that updating, and you also have to wait for
that entire object to be updated. Whereas, if you have file storage, you are able to make
insertions in the data. And usually that file storage
is attached more closely to your actual compute and
you can get much lower latency that way. And then another type of
storage is block storage. And you can in the cloud,
choose block storage, optimized virtual machines
that have extremely low latency between the block storage and
the server. So for extreme low latency,
that can be a great solution. >> So some of the considerations
here are security and encryption. I mean, ideally, you're looking for data
to be encrypted at rest and in flight. Some other factors to
consider include data access frequency from very active with
low latency to less frequent, to infrequent or cold storage or
even archive for long-term storage. Another factor is cost. I mean, more frequent access and lower latency is generally
going to be more expensive. Those services and business requirements. The data is perhaps immutable or protected such that it cannot
be modified or deleted. And another is data lifecycle and how to automate policies to retain, move, archive or delete old data. >> And then some cloud
provider is actually coming out right now with
a storage area network so that you can have a whole
bunch of block storage as one storage area network that you can access
from your cloud virtual machines. Another thing to consider is
what are the encryption options? So fortunately, most storage
solutions in the cloud right now have the ability to encrypt your storage. But you want to make sure
that that's a feature. And then another option is called
content delivery network. And for content delivery networks, that
is an option if you want to have media, for example, stored as close to
your end user as possible, so that when they load your website and look at the images, those are loaded in an instant because the media is replicated across all areas.