Welcome to Career Paths in Software Engineering. After watching this video, you will be able
to describe typical career paths for a software
engineer, and identify the likely roles within career
paths. A career path in software engineering opens
up as you gain experience and attain new skills. Often it heads in one of two directions: technical
or management. If you thrive on working with code and solving
problems, then the technical path enables you to continue working closely with technology
as your career progresses. Or, if you exhibit strong leadership qualities
alongside the soft skills of a good software engineer, you might progress onto managing
a team of software engineers and the work that they do. So, let’s take a look at a common career
path for a software engineer progressing on the technical or managerial path. Remember that different organizations will
use different job titles, but the roles will be similar across the board. You’re likely to start out in an entry-level
position as a Junior Software Engineer or Associate Software Engineer. At this level you’ll be developing small
chunks of software to meet agreed client specifications. You’ll be assigned a team leader or mentor
who will guide you along the way and provide support when you need it. During this phase of your career, you’ll
be on a steep learning curve, gaining new skills and experience with every block of
code that you write. You could then move on to a Software Engineer
position. In this role you’ll be expected to be more
independent and able to able to break larger tasks down into smaller achievable sub-tasks. You may be learning new programming languages
and demonstrating an understanding of the software development lifecycle. At this stage, you might be asked to mentor
a junior software engineer or take responsibility for a larger part of a project. The next stage of your career could be a Senior
Software Engineer position. In this role you’re likely to have involvement
across the whole of a project and with an entire codebase. You may be asked to mentor software engineers
and to conduct code reviews across the team. And from the experience you’ve gained in
earlier roles, you’ll be expected to be able to solve a wide range of problems in
an efficient way. If you choose to follow the technical path,
then your next role might be as a Staff Software Engineer. In this role you’ll work as part of the
technical team developing, maintaining, and extending software. You’ll be responsible for ensuring that
the software meets customer and user expectations and that it uses resources efficiently. If you decide to follow a managerial career
path, you could become a Technical Lead. In this role you’ll manage the team of developers
and engineers developing the software in your organization. You could be responsible for the entire development
lifecycle and report to the project stakeholders. Continuing along the technical path, you might
progress to be a Principal Engineer or Technical Architect. At this stage you’ll be responsible for
the architecture and design of a software solution, as well as the development of it. You’ll be expected to create processes and
procedures for your team and provide technical direction. On the managerial path, you could become an
Engineering Manager. In this role, you’ll ensure that the entire
team is appropriately supported and encouraged to progress in their careers. Becoming a Director of Engineering could be
the next stage in the progression of your career. It is a strategic and technical role. On the strategic side, you’ll determine
priorities for the projects within the company, identify hiring needs, and define long term
goals. On the technical side of the role, you’ll
be involved in defining new projects, specifying requirements, and overseeing the project. The lead of an organization’s technology
arm is likely to be the Chief Technology Officer (or CTO). In this role, you oversee all of the research
and development in the company. You’ll also monitor the company’s systems
and infrastructure to ensure that it meets your needs and budget. Even at this level, you’ll continue learning. As technology evolves and new products appear
on the market, you’ll be responsible for deciding which ones meet your business needs
and could give your organization a competitive advantage. Of course, not everyone who starts out as
a Junior Software Engineer follows these traditional software engineering paths, but you’ll find
that the skills you gain will benefit you in a wide variety of other roles. If after working on client projects for a
while you decide that you prefer interacting with the clients to writing the code, you
could transition into a technical sales or customer support role. If you enjoy coding, but find working with
numbers and data is more appealing, you could transition into a data engineer or data scientist
role. And, if you find the data side of your new
role is your passion, you could move on to become a database administrator or database
developer. And if you enjoy finding and fixing bugs,
you might transition to a software tester role. IT is a vast field with an abundance of opportunities
across many skill sets, so starting your career in software engineering is a great choice
even if you use it as a stepping stone to move to other technical or leadership roles
in the future. In this video, you learned that: A career in software engineering is likely
to follow a technical or managerial path. At each stage on that path, you will take
on more responsibility and a wider range of tasks. And, starting out as a software engineer enables
you to take an array of other options at any stage in your career.