Welcome to Software Engineering Job Titles. After watching this video, you will be able
to list commonly used job titles for software
engineers, and identify the primary duties of and skills
needed for these roles. Job titles such as software engineer and software
developer are very broad and can be used to describe a spectrum of roles. As well as these titles, you may come across
other titles related to specific sub-domains in software engineering. While individual organizations might use company-specific
job titles, you’ll find that most fit into one of the more generic titles. Types of software engineer roles include: Front-end engineer Back-end engineer Full-stack engineer DevOps engineer Software quality assurance engineer Software integration engineer Software security engineer Mobile app developer and Games developer Front-end engineers focus on developing the
user interface, or UI, of a software solution. They’re also sometimes referred to as UI
developers or web developers. In this type of role, you’re responsible
for the visual design of the software, including the layout of UI elements and the overall
aesthetics of the application or website. It’s important for a front-end developer
to understand how users interact with software and the principles of user experience design. You’ll also need to understand how objects
and code run differently on different operating systems, devices, and browsers to ensure that
your solution works on the user’s chosen system. Key skills of a front-end engineer include: web development languages and
UX and UI frameworks. Back-end engineers focus on the business logic
of a software solution. In this type of role, you’re responsible for the core logic of the software
implementing functionality to perform tasks such as accessing data and databases, logging information, and caching systems by
using application programming interfaces, or APIs. You’ll also be responsible for ensuring
the scalability and performance of the solution. Key skills of a back-end engineer include programming languages, application frameworks, web servers, app servers, and load balancers, databases. and deployment and containerization tools
and technologies. Full-stack engineers work across the whole
software solution. In this type of role, you’re able to create both the user interface and the back-end functionality
of an application or website using the skills of both front-end and back-end engineers. Key skills of a full-stack engineer include web development languages, programming languages, UX, UI, and backend frameworks, web and application servers, databases, APIs and web services, and deployment and containerization tools. DevOps, or development and operations, aims
to deliver software in an agile manner by combining software development and IT operations. DevOps engineers apply agile processes and
methodologies to streamline their product development, improvement, and maintenance as well as transcend the boundaries of the
traditionally distinct development and operations teams. In a DevOps role you need familiarity with
both front-end and back-end technologies. The skills, technologies, and products that
a DevOps engineer is likely to use include source code management tools, programming languages and frameworks, scripts, and deployment, containerization,
and monitoring tools. Depending on the actual job posting, you might
use alternative products and services, but they will be of a similar nature to those
shown here. Software quality assurance engineers, also
referred to as software QA engineers or software test engineers, test, review, assess, and
write software to validate the quality of an application. In a QA role, you’ll develop automated tests,
tools, and procedures to test the functionality of software solutions. You’ll use bug tracking software to log
any errors you discover and report them to the software development team. The key skills for software QA engineers include programming languages, shell scripting, bug tracking and issue management tools, testing automation tools, And specific software stacks depending on
how the application is deployed. Software integration engineers write code
to integrate software into hardware products enabling smart devices and the internet of things products. In this role, you’ll use programming languages
and frameworks to program hardware such as consumer devices, home security systems, electronics,
and other interfaces. The key skills for a software integration
engineer include programming languages and proprietary technologies, frameworks, and
toolkits. Software security engineers, sometimes referred
to as white hat or ethical hackers, work to find security flaws and vulnerabilities
in software. As a security engineer, you’ll create systems,
methods, and procedures to test software solutions and exploit their security weaknesses so that
they can be fixed before the solution ships. The key skills for a security engineer include programming languages, reverse engineering, shell scripting, tools for vulnerability and penetration testing, and network security and encryption tools. Mobile app developers design, develop, and
implement software solutions for mobile devices such as smartphones and tablets. You’ll use web skills to create front-end
apps as well as learn the various different platforms to write the back-end code interacting
with the specific type of device. The key skills of a mobile app developer include mobile operating systems, web development languages, programming languages, as well as Web services and technologies. Games engineers write gaming software for
a wide variety of devices, from PCs, to smartphones, to web browsers,
to games consoles. As a games developer, you’ll work alongside
graphic artists, sound technicians, and game designers to create the code used in games. In this video, you learned that there are many different job titles under
the umbrella term of software engineering, each of which has specific duties and responsibilities, and requires a specific set of skills.