Welcome to Insiders’ Viewpoints:
Deployment Architecture. In this video, we will hear
from experts discussing important aspects of software deployment. I think often you need to think
about scale, like this sort of just in general, is your system, how
many users your system has? How much data do you expect to flow through it? How much data do you expect to produce and store? How real-time do you need the data access to be? What is your logging story like?
Do you have privacy concerns? Do you need to ensure that data is anonymized? So you kind of, I think, thinking about
the scale, the regionality, is it global? Is it local? What is your logging? What are your logging needs,
both for internal and external data analysis, mapping out the data flows? So these are sort of the things I think we
start with is with design principles. And in terms of choosing infrastructure,
like whether you want to go serverless, whether you want to use a hosted back
end, or you're hosting your own, you know, these are all design
and architectural decisions, that will probably, for your first few jobs,
already be taken for you. What's your system SLOs, your availability look
like? Service level objectives, right? So, you need to think about
those sorts of things, I think, ensuring you, you have you like, what
does a healthy system mean to you? What does a well-running system mean to
you, you need to define those metrics upfront? And sort of have those monitored, and, you know,
watch those as, as your system lives on and, and make sure that you're meeting those objectives
and goals and have a plan to mitigate them if they fall below
where you'd like them to be? These days, I think microservices, and keeping
code as modular-alized as possible to avoid, you know, giant, sort of
bloated behemoth code bases is really important so that people
can move fast and deploy fast. But what I would say is a critical
part of the deployment option is, you know, when you look at deployment and
integrating your code, testing is fundamental. So I would strongly urge all of you to
really, really pay attention to testing and to use test driven development, TDD, test
driven development, as a development habit that you inculcate in your life as developers and
engineers, it'll stand you in very good stead. I think that's the single most important part, you won't always do it, but you should
try and do it as much as you can. You need to think about whether
you want to canarying the, there's a canary in a coal mine analogy. So there's a process called canarying where you try to roll out new code and test whether it's going to blow things up or break things and you want to think about, you know, you need to think
about how quickly you need to release or not. How quickly you may need to roll back your code or not.