Welcome to Insiders’ Viewpoints: Working
with HTML and CSS. In this video, we will listen to several professionals
discuss their experience working with hypertext markup language (HTML) and cascading style
sheets (CSS). A typical challenge when writing in CSS, and
when you are kind of new at it, is it can be hard to enter an element perfectly in a
space, whether it be the whole page or within a box, can be hard to center things really
nicely, and might just be off a little bit. And for that, it was really helpful to learn
Flexbox. So I encourage you to give that a shot and
understand that and be comfortable with Flexbox. While working with HTML and CSS, sometimes
the main challenge is finding the errors or bugs in your code. It is important to validate your code frequently. You can use an online HTML and CSS validation
service to make sure that the code is properly formatted, and there is no missing parenthesis,
incorrect property names, etc. To find out any CSS errors, you can also use
developer tools in the browser. Another challenge is testing the code on different
browsers. Some of the old browsers do not support modern
HTML features. Once you have decided on the technologies
you would be using, it is a good idea to research the browsers that would support these features. You should also add fallback mechanisms to
your HTML code for browsers not supporting the new features. For example, if you're using HTML5 video,
you can add a link to download video as a fallback option for browsers that don't support
the HTML5 video player. My answer is going to focus on CSS since it
is far more complex than HTML. In my opinion, it’s unthinkable to tackle
cross platform CSS without using a framework. So, the challenge is how do you pick your
framework and here are some ideas. Bootstrap is one of the most popular, it has
powerful cross browser capabilities. There is Foundation. It has a significant learning curve. There's the materialized framework from Google,
which has an optimized feature set that many developers value. There's also UI kit which is most popular
in iOS development.