Welcome to Insiders’ Viewpoints: Career
Pathways and Continuing Education in Software Engineering. In this video, we will hear from experts discussing
how they became software engineers, their education, and their background. So I have a non traditional path into software
engineering, my bachelor's degree is in social work. And I worked as a social worker
for some time, I was introduced to coding via social media, randomly on social media,
I was scrolling in December 2018. And afterwards, I kind of fell down the rabbit
hole of learning how to program and I decided to go to a 10 month long, very intense coding
boot camp to make the switch into software engineering. And so one thing I have learned over the past
three, three and a half years, is that your career doesn't have to be linear, and your
career doesn't have to look like anyone else's I just picked computer science, I love math. That's the only thing that I think really
drew me to computer science was oh, it's if you love math, apparently, you will love computer
science too. So I think some of the most successful engineers
that I, that worked for me, or I've worked with, come from backgrounds, not even sort
of, like mine, neither people with like, with non-technical backgrounds, who picked up coding
on the side, there's so many folks who come from, from
you know, they are English majors or philosophy majors or bio, whatever it is. Because I think there's this you can you can
learn all these skills and become a really strong engineer, without having gone to a
four year college or, or more for computer science, specifically, or, or another engineering
role. And so in college, I ended up taking what
was it, applied math, I did applied math as my major. I want to I always wanted to work on things
that had a practical application, which is why I went into applied mathematics rather
than pure mathematics anyway. Yeah, so I did that research program. And as part of that program, we were writing
simulations, using MATLAB actually. That was a fun time. So we were writing simulations using MATLAB,
and I realized I enjoyed that part more than I enjoyed the mathematical research part of
it. And that's kind of what kicked it all off. Like, oh, computers are a lot of fun. So I ended up graduating college with an Applied
Math major, Computer Science minor. And then I've been taking computer science
jobs ever since then. So I received a Bachelor of Fine Art, actually. So not anything tech related. And I worked in education for a few years,
I ended up as an art teacher. And it was during that time that I decided
that I wanted to switch paths because I wanted a little bit more freedom. With my job more flexible schedule, I
wanted the opportunity to work remotely. So I decided to take a class to see if I would
like it at a community college near my house. And I really, really loved that class. And at the same time, kind of just watch videos
on Udemy and YouTube and teach myself some things that I wasn't learning in class. I took 32 credits at the community college
level. And then after that, I did apply to graduate
school. While in grad school, I received an internship
offer at my current company and did a summer internship and directly following that I started
full time. Next, we will hear from these experts regarding
how they maintain their skills and keep up with the continuous technology evolution. I follow people on Twitter who talk about
emerging technologies and new technologies. I also subscribe to this newsletter called
TLDR. And they pretty much just surmise everything that's going on
in the tech industry. That's what I like to do to keep up to date. And I also take various courses on things that
are interesting to me. Yeah, I think just just carving out time to
learn, whether it's within your often companies will give people some amount of time to for
personal development and growth which can be which can mean taking courses to learn
new languages or frameworks. I've found that I learned best if I have a
project that makes me need to learn the thing. So I started with Googling, like, honestly,
Reddit threads, frequently are the best places to find out about like, what are the popular
and new technologies these days. If you just search on Google for like, the
best website framework, Reddit 2022, you'll find numerous posts of people debating the
pros and cons of different types of frameworks. And then actually, another very important
thing is debug it. Attach a debugger put in print statements. Do everything you can to be able to inspect
the flow of the code that is getting that is getting run. Knowing how to debug is about almost equally
an important skill as knowing how to write the code. But the way that I kind of keep on top of
everything is reading documentation. I have really great coworkers who are always
also in the know of like, when things are updated when languages are updated when to
use new new technologies. So they helped me out a lot there. And we also get Udemy for free, like Udemy
business for free for all employees, which is a really great way to learn new things
and also stay on top of new technologies that that come out.