Welcome to Insiders’ Viewpoints: Advice
to Future Software Engineers. In this video, we will hear from software
engineers discussing their advice to those who are considering getting into the field. Practice, you should practice all the time,
you should learn new skills as much as you can. There are a lot of free resources out there
that you can use to help you build new projects, I think the best way to continue working on
your craft is to learn not only learn new things, but also use them to build new projects. It can doesn't matter if it's something that's
been done before the point is that you're doing it now. And you're using the tools that you've used
to build something new. The most important thing for my career has
been finding a business domain that I am interested in, that has what that have looked like, not
low hanging fruits, but interesting problems to grapple with. The interesting problems for you are certainly
going to be the different than the interesting problems for me. But if you narrow down those, if you narrow
down the domains that you're interested in, that can really help tailor both of the things
that you study the types of jobs that you apply for. I have other friends where their domain, the
domains that they're super interested in is like, like, machine learning, like they're
just nuts for machine learning. And so they'll do anything that they can exercise,
like, an artificial intelligence kind of thrust to the whatever business problem it is that
they're working on. So like find that general domain, and then
kind of like, dive in on that one. But don't be don't be scared to fail either. I think the beauty about what's one of the
one of the beauties about software engineering and, and the way that tech is evolving, is
there's there are a lot of opportunities and it will continue to be new opportunities. And you know, there's lots of movement in
the industry. So if you take a job and you really are excited
about it, but you know, it ends up not working out as well. You can always think, you know, move to somewhere
else. There's lots of different types of lots of
roles, lots of companies, all that sort of people move around so don't don't don't let
a one potential failure either mean, you give up, I think it's wouldn't be a failure. Yes, so my best advice for those looking to
get into the software engineering industry is to figure out what role you want to get
into, make a list of the required skills for that role and find free resources to
start learning online. So when I was exposed to coding in 2018, after
trying a few technologies, I decided that I wanted to be a front end engineer or a front
end developer. And so I made a list of all the skills that
I needed. And I started learning those skills using
like free or low cost resources online. I think being careful about what sort of hot
and new there's, there's often this is more specifically to like taking I think taking
jobs and and how do you find like a good role and fit for you? I know a lot of companies will often sort
of market themselves as being you know, we're, we're we're working with XYZ new technology. It's, it's super, super hot. And it's like the latest and greatest and
almost use use buzzwords as a way to attract people. So just, you know, be inquisitive and ask
clarifying questions. Be wary in that sense. You are cautious when it comes to some of
the buzzwords and new things and just know what you're getting into. Don't neglect the job hunt process. Pay due attention to that. Because if you just study and don't pay attention
to the job hunt process, you're going to get frustrated because you're going to finish
one phase, and then have a long period of frustration and self doubt after that. So if you can do the job hunt phase in preparation,
sort of in parallel with the latter half of your learning journey, I think you're going
to be prepared to hit the market hard when you're ready. And it's just a question of time after that
time.