[MUSIC] Welcome to Cloud Computing: Emerging Trends
and Technologies - Expert Viewpoints. in this video, we will listen to
several cloud application professionals discuss trends and
technologies in cloud computing. >> The top three trends that I see
coming in the next couple of years are as follows. First, is this idea of a hybrid cloud, as IBM has predicted, a lot of companies
and clients will move from a single cloud provider
to multiple cloud providers. That could be multiple public clouds or a
public cloud and on-premise private cloud. Second, I see this big surge of edge computing becoming more prominent
in cloud computing. Now the terms may seem quite different
from each other and disjointed, but in many sense the cloud
computing will go on the edge. The numbers state that
quite overwhelmingly, there are 75 billion devices that
are supposed to come up online by 2075. And the edge computing, in order to be able to communicate
between devices and back to the server, is going to be very crucial. And lastly, it's the usage of
machine learning and artificial intelligence to make decisions for us
in the cloud computing space. So, these are my top three trends that I
see coming in the next couple of years. >> So one of the emerging trends in
cloud computing is serverless and that's the area of cloud computing where, all you need to do is give the cloud
your application logic. And that means you don't
need to patch any servers, you don't need to manage the high
availability of your infrastructure, you don't have to put in
multiple availability zones. The cloud provider takes care of
all of those operational issues for you and all you do is give it the code and
it runs it on demand. So, every time you have
an event triggered, let's say it's a voice assistant,
and every time you talk to it, it triggers a cloud function--
that is what serverless is. And so, developers love it because
with serverless, you don't need to do
all the undifferentiated work, the work that does not make your app unique. You can focus on the logic
that makes your app unique. >> So in terms of emerging technologies,
one of the big ones is cloud native, cloud native architecture. And that includes the trend
towards microservices, basically dividing up
monolithic applications, what would have been monolithic legacy
applications into granular microservices. And this affords a whole
range of advantages. Another one is containers and container
orchestration systems and most notably, the Docker and Kubernetes
technologies. Another is serverless services, where some functional code can be
spun up with very low latency without the need to manage any virtual servers. And the term cloud native
architecture really encompasses some combination of all of these, in terms of emerging trends... >> So I'd like to discuss a couple trends
I see all the time in cloud computing right now. First of all, we have serverless
computing, and that's the idea that you don't have to worry about anything other than writing the code for your application. You don't need to know
"are you deploying Kubernetes?" "Do you need to know IP addresses?"
"Is this Linux?" Nothing. and I really see this as the future because you don't want to have to worry about how it's deployed, managing RAM, managing CPU,
any of that stuff; you just want to create code. And the easier that it is to get your code
from written to deployed and running well, the better, and
it's a win for everybody. >> Another area that's emerging
in cloud technology is DevOps and with DevOps, you have the developers
a lot more integrated with operations. So you've got a CICD pipeline where
the developers can push their own code and see it live on the servers or
the serverless functions. And DevOps is a term that has
a lot of different definitions. One definition I've enjoyed hearing is that it means the developers
are talking with operations and vice versa, that there's a dialogue going on. And it's not just how it was in
the past where the developers hand over the code, but the developers really see the lifecycle
through to it being maintained in production. >> In terms of emerging trends, we're seeing comprehensive cloud services
for building data pipelines, data science in general,
and artificial intelligence services. And specifically, we're seeing low-level AI services
to build AI solutions from the ground up, along with higher level
pre-trained AI solutions for things like image recognition,
speech applications, just to name a few. Another whole area of advancement
is in the area of cybersecurity, it's obvious that cybersecurity is something
that we have to be constantly aware of and improving all the time. And we're seeing a constant stream
of improvements to secure your network perimeter, compute resources,
and data in the cloud. >> Another emerging trend in cloud
computing is application modernization. So, with cloud providers coming
out with all these amazing services that do a lot of things for
you, the companies are thinking, "Wait a second, the cloud provider is doing certain features
of our application better than we are." "And instead of continuing to maintain
that part of our application ourselves, let's rewrite the application to take
advantage of these cloud native services." For example, there are services now that
do transcription or image recognition. And rather than, have your own... inference and training servers
that you manage, and use open source machine learning models
that you host, and you train those models
on data that you give it-- Don't do any of that! Just drop the images in an... image recognition service
of a cloud provider, and you're not managing any service--
you just get the data. [MUSIC]