In this video we will review
Hypertext Markup Language or HTML for Web Scraping. Lots of useful data is available on web pages, such as real estate prices and solutions to coding questions. The website Wikipedia is a
repository of the world's information. If you have an understanding of HTML, you
can use Python to extract this information. In this video, you will: review the HTML of a basic web page; understand the Composition of an HTML Tag; understand HTML Trees; and understand HTML Tables. Let’s say you were asked to find
the name and salary of players in a National Basketball League
from the following page. The web page is comprised of HTML. It consists
of text surrounded by a series of blue text elements enclosed in angle brackets
called tags. The tags tells the browser how to display the content. The
data we require is in this text. The first portion contains the "DOCTYPE html”
which declares this document is an HTML document. The "html" element is the root
element of an HTML page, and "head" element contains meta
information about the HTML page. Next, we have the body, this is
what's displayed on the web page. This is usually the data we are interested
in, we see the elements with an “h3”, this means type 3 heading,
makes the text larger and bold. These tags have the names of the players,
notice the data is enclosed in the elements. It starts with a h3 in brackets
and ends in a slash h3 in brackets. There is also a different tag “p”, this means
paragraph, each p tag contains a player's salary. Let’s take a closer look at
the composition of an HTML tag. Here is an example of an HTML Anchor tag.
It will display IBM and when you click it, it will send you to IBM.com. We have the tag name, in this case “a”. This tag defines a hyperlink, which is
used to link from one page to another. It’s helpful to think of each tag name as a class
in Python and each individual tag as an instance. We have the opening or start tag and we have the end tag. This has the tag name preceded by a slash. These tags contain the content, in this
case what’s displayed on the web page. We have the attribute, this is composed of the Attribute Name and Attribute Value. In this case it the url to
the destination web page. Real web pages are more complex, depending on your
browser you can select the HTML element, then click Inspect. The result will give you the
ability to inspect the HTML. There is also other types of content such as CSS and JavaScript
that we will not go over in this course. The actual element is shown here. Each HTML document can actually be referred to
as a document tree. Let's go over a simple example. Tags may contain strings and other tags. These elements are the tag’s children. We can represent this as a family tree.
Each nested tag is a level in the tree. The tag HTML tag contains the head and body tag. The Head and body tag are the
descendants of the html tag. In particular they are the
children of the HTML tag. HTML tag is their parent. The head and body tag are siblings
as they are on the same level. Title tag is the child of the head
tag and its parent is the head tag. The title tag is a descendant of
the HTML tag but not its child. The heading and paragraph tags
are the children of the body tag; and as they are all children of the body
tag they are siblings of each other. The bold tag is a child of the heading tag, the content of the tag is also part of
the tree but this can get unwieldy to draw. Next, let’s review HTML tables. To define an HTML table we have the table tag. Each table row is defined with a "tr" tag, you can
also use a table header tag for the first row. The table row cell contains a set of
"td" tags, each defines a table cell. For the first row first cell we have; for the first row second cell we have; and so on. For the second row we have; and for the second row first cell we have; for the second row second cell we have; and so on. We now have some
basic knowledge of HTML. Now let's try and extract
some data from a web page.