Welcome to CSS Frameworks. After watching this video, you will be able
to: differentiate between the different types
of CSS frameworks, list the advantages and disadvantages of each
type of popular framework and identify popular CSS frameworks and how to
use them. Recall that a framework provides a foundation
on which you can build your code. CSS frameworks, specifically, can provide
you with all the tools you need to spin up a basic user interface (or UI). This makes it easier to:
Implement various visual elements on a page. Which can include navigation bars, forms,
and grids and to create dynamic and responsive websites,
which can make a website suitable for any screen size. Since frameworks must be used from the creation
of your project, it is important to know about different types of frameworks available. Different frameworks focus on different features,
so it’s important to identify which are most important to your project when deciding
which framework to use. There are two types of CSS frameworks: utility
frameworks and component frameworks. Using no framework at all and just using plain
CSS (also called Vanilla CSS) requires you to write all the styling on your own. This gives you the freedom to style everything
exactly as you want it, but also requires a lot of time and effort, as
you must style every component. An alternative to this is to use a utility
framework, which gives you “utility” classes that
scope to a single CSS property. This makes it easier to apply CSS properties
directly in your HTML code, which can save a lot of time while still giving you the freedom to style components
as you wish. Component frameworks provide you with pre-styled components and
templates which are easy to add to any website. This requires little knowledge of CSS and
makes it easy to keep consistent styles, but also limits you to only the components
made available by the framework. Utility-first frameworks provide you with an easy way to reference
CSS properties. These typically come in the form of classes,
called utility classes, which scope to single-purpose CSS classes. Instead of having to write out the entire
CSS property, utility-first frameworks allow you to use a property by referencing
its corresponding class within the “class” attribute of your desired HTML element. For example, instead of using the “text-align:
center;” CSS property in your code, a utility-first framework might have a self-descriptive
class, such as “text-center”, which does the same thing when added to the ”class”
attribute of an HTML element. They make it easy to be consistent with color
choices, spacing, typography, shadows, and everything else that makes up a well-engineered
design system. However, having these styles mixed into your
HTML classes reduces the separations of concern within your code, making your HTML markup
more verbose. Since utility-first frameworks involve adding
many classes to your HTML markup, this often causes the download size of your
markup to increase, and potentially slows down your web pages. A popular utility-first CSS framework used
today is Tailwind CSS. It is packed with classes that can be composed
to build any design directly in your markup. For example,
say you want to style a link to indicate it’s dangerous. You could underline the link text and change
the text color to be red, as well as make the link a darker shade of red when hovered
over. Doing this in vanilla CSS would require this code, where you need to specify what
the link looks regularly and when hovered over in two separate sections. However, with Tailwind CSS, it can easily
be done within the “class” attribute, directly
in the HTML, which can save a developer time. The “hover” portion of the Tailwind CSS
is a special type of class, called a modifier, which can be used with any other Tailwind
class and is only applied when a user hovers over that
element. There are many instances of modifiers in Tailwind
CSS, some of which can make it very easy to create responsive websites fit to any screen
size. For example, adding “md:” before a class will only apply the class when a user’s
screen size is greater than 768 pixels wide, which is defined by Tailwind as a medium size
screen. This code will display an image with a width
of 16 (64px) by default, a width of 32 (128px) on medium screens, and a width of 48 (192px)
on large screens. This saves developers a lot of time when styling
many different elements, allowing them more time to focus on the back-end. It also provides them the freedom to style
elements however they want. Component frameworks provide pre-styled components
which can be easily added to your code. This results in the ability to develop well-styled
websites rapidly, as significantly less time needs to be spent styling each element. It also makes it easier to keep all related
elements styled uniformly, as you can simply choose the same or similar styles each time. However, having all these pre-defined styles
limits you only to what the framework provides, and doesn’t give you the freedom of customizing
everything exactly as you want it. They also provide a lot of overhead code that
you wouldn’t otherwise get if you choose not to use any frameworks, as component frameworks
will often provide you with more components than what you’ll use. One of the most popular component CSS frameworks
in use today is called Bootstrap. It allows you to build fast, responsive sites
with a feature-packed frontend toolkit. If we take our example of adding a red danger
link to your webpage which we saw earlier, we can see how much easier this would be with
Bootstrap. Recall how to add this with Vanilla CSS and
Tailwind CSS. Bootstrap provides a red danger link as one
of its many components, and so adding this can simply be done by using the “link-danger”
class. Seeing all these side by side, it becomes
clear that for this example, bootstrap has the easiest implementation of
a danger link. However, this may not always be the case. In addition to providing individual HTML components,
such as buttons and links, Bootstrap also supplies entire templates which
range from anything as comprehensive as an entire website, to a simple sign-in page. As a whole, all of Bootstrap’s components
and features save time designing webpages and make it easy to remain consistent with
styles throughout a website. It’s ease-of-use also means that you don’t
need to be an expert in CSS to use it, only limited knowledge is needed to use its basic features! However, it is important to keep in mind that
it’s limited in the components it can provide, and may not have the ones you’re looking
for. In this video, you learned CSS frameworks make it easier to implement
UI elements and create mobile-friendly webpages. Plain, or Vanilla, CSS lets you write all
the styles and layouts of a website on your own. Utility-First Frameworks provide you with
utility classes to help you build your own styles and layouts. Tailwind CSS consists of classes that are
composed to build designs directly on the markup. Component Frameworks provide you with a wide
selection of pre-styled components and templates, which can be implemented onto your website. Bootstrap allows developers to build fast,
responsive sites with its feature-packed front-end toolkit.