Welcome to HTML5 Tags and Structural Elements. After watching this video, you will be able
to: List elements specific to HTML5. Describe HTML5 structural elements
section, article, header, footer, figure, figcaption. Explain the difference between navigation
and grouping elements. There are many HTML5 specific elements. The table shows some of them. Notice that the HTML5 element tags have intuitive
names, such as audio that is used to embed sound
content, and canvas that is used for graphical content. Not all of these element tags are covered
in this video, so take a moment to read through the table. This table shows more HTML5 elements. The last tag in the table is the comments
tag. Comments in HTML can assist the developer
to explain what the code does. The browsers do not display these comments,
unless the user views the source code. In a division-based layout, each part of a
page that you want to format differently is separated into its own division. Think of the natural divisions into which
you can divide the page that is shown here. These divisions might include the page title,
a banner with selectable tabs, an area for the image, and further blocks for text and thumbnail
images. The div tag was not introduced in HTML5,
but is a good starting point for laying out a page or document. Then, you can use other HTML5-specific structural
elements inside the div tag. Most HTML elements have a semantic meaning. In other words, the element describes either
the function or the type of data that is contained within. For example, a p element is a paragraph
that usually contains some text. In contrast, the <div> tag has no innate semantic
meaning besides the logical grouping of the content. You can use these dedicated elements to mark
up your website, rather than using the generic div or span elements. An article defines a block of code that
can be distinguished from the rest of the page. A section defines a logical separation in
the document such as the numbered chapters of an online manual. A header element is used to group the headers
for a page. The footer defines the area at the bottom
of the page. This code example shows some of the HTML5
structural elements. Here, the article element is used to create
an online news report. The article includes a header. Within the article, the page is marked up
into sections that have their own headers. The page also includes a footer element. The aside tag is used to provide additional
information that is related to the main discussion. The aside tag lets you extract and display
further content or go to additional resources without detracting from the main discussion. The figure tag defines a self-contained
element that is referred to from the main content. The figure element can be used to embed
graphics, images, or code sections. The figcaption tag defines the caption for
the contents of the figure element. Websites typically have sections that are
dedicated to navigational links that go to these sites or for moving between pages of
a single application. In HTML5 syntax, these navigational links
are placed inside a nav tag. The nav tag is a convenience tag for grouping
navigational links in a web page. In this video, you learned: Tags provide control within an HTML5 document. Some tags provide structural elements: The div tag separates areas in a document
into divisions, enabling you to apply different styles to different parts of a document. Dedicated elements like article, section,
header, and footer are more specific than the generic div element. The aside, figure and figcaption tags
enable you to group content. And the nav tags enable you to group navigational
links.