Welcome to Application Deployment Environments.
After watching this video you will also be able to: List different types of pre-production environments
and state their purpose. Differentiate a production environment from
other application environments. And compare and contrast deployment options. An application environment is the combination
of the hardware and software resources required to run an application. This includes:
the application code and/or binary executables for its various components or modules the software stack it requires for running
the application such as modules and libraries it depends on, third party applications and
middleware, and the operating system, any networking components and infrastructure,
as well as any physical or virtual hardware including
computing or processing resources, memory, and storage. There are a variety of environment types depending
on the application’s stage in the lifecycle. The pre-production environments are those
platforms that the application resides on in various forms as it gets prepared for production.
Common pre-production environments are “development,” “QA,” which stands
for quality assurance, and “staging.” The development environment is the platform
on which the application is being actively coded, and in many cases it may just be
the developer's workstation. The QA environment, sometimes called “testing”
is the environment that allows the QA team to test the application’s components. The staging environment is the environment
that is as close to replicating the production environment as possible but is not meant for
general users. Now, let’s discuss the production environment. The production environment, often just called
“production” includes the entire solution stack consisting of both hardware
and software on which the application runs as additional infrastructure components. The production environment is intended for
all users. Unlike the pre-production environments, this
robust environment must take the application “load” into consideration because it is
the environment intended for general use, possibly by thousands or millions of people
at the same time for enterprise-level applications. Production environments must also take into
account non-functional requirements like security, reliability, and scalability. This makes the production environment more
complicated than the pre-production ones. Now, let’s take a look at the production
environment infrastructure. There are several options for deploying application
environments. In on-premises deployment, the system and
its infrastructure reside in-house, within the organization’s physical location, often
behind a firewall. Firewalls prevent unauthorized access to or from a private
network. If an organization desires greater security
or control of an application and the data in use by that application, it may deploy
the application on-premises. For on-premises software deployments, an organization
is responsible for the system, hardware, related infrastructure, and maintenance required to
run the application. On-premises deployment is usually more expensive
when compared to cloud deployment. Let’s discuss cloud deployments next. There are three types of Cloud deployment
models—public, private, and hybrid. The public cloud is when you leverage the
software’s supporting infrastructure over the open internet on hardware owned by the
cloud provider. That hardware and the associated services are shared with other companies.
Public cloud providers include Amazon Web Services (AWS), Microsoft Azure, Google Cloud
Platform, and IBM Cloud. The public cloud is the most common due to its scalability
and cost. With a private cloud, the cloud infrastructure
is provisioned for exclusive use by a single organization. The software system can be run
on-premises, or the infrastructure could be owned, managed, and operated by a service
provider. For example, AWS is also a private cloud service provider. The main advantage
of a private cloud is increased security, but it also allows for more flexibility because
it can be fully customized. Now a mix of both public and private clouds, working
together seamlessly, is called a hybrid cloud model. A hybrid cloud potentially optimizes
the advantages of both public and private cloud models with regard to cost, security,
scalability, and flexibility. In this video you learned that: Application environments include: development,
testing or QA, staging, and production. Production environments must also take into
account non-functional requirements like load, security, reliability, and scalability. And application environments can be deployed either
on-premises on traditional hardware, or on public, private, or hybrid cloud platforms.