Welcome to Approaches to
Application Architecture. After watching this video, you will be able to: Describe component-based architectures
and service-oriented architecture. Explain the characteristics of a component. Differentiate between components and services. And, describe the characteristics
of distributed systems. A component is an individual unit of encapsulated functionality that serves as a part of an application in
conjunction with other components. There are six characteristics of
components. Components should be reusable, replaceable, independent, extensible, encapsulated, and non-context specific. Let’s briefly
discuss each of these principles. Reusable implies that components should be designed such that they can be
reused in different applications. Replaceable means that a component should
be easily replaced with another component. Independent means the component
should be designed so it doesn’t have dependencies on other components. Extensibility entails the ability to add behavior
to a component without changing other components. Encapsulation consists of bundling a component’s
data and methods to hide its internal state, so it doesn’t expose its specific implementation. Creating a component that is non-context-specific
involves designing it so it operates in different environments. Data that sets its
internal state should be passed to the component rather than included
within or accessed by the component. Let’s take a look at some
examples of components. An API can be packaged as a component, if it can be
reused across multiple systems and applications. For instance, a component could be an open-source API that connects a system
to a particular database. A component can also be the interface for a
database, called a data access object, that switches the user to a different database without
the application knowing about the switch. And a controller is a type of component that
determines which other components need to be called for a particular event. It controls
the flow of data between two other components. Component-based architecture, then, focuses on the decomposition of the
design into these logical components. Component-based architecture provides a higher
level of abstraction than object-oriented designs. A component-based architecture should
define, compose, and implement loosely coupled independent components so they
work together to create an application. A service is like a component, also a unit
of functionality, but it is designed to be deployed independently and
reused by multiple systems. A service focuses on a
solution to a business need. A key difference between a component and a service
is that a service will only have one unique, always running instance with whom multiple
clients communicate. This diagram displays the relationship between objects, components,
and services in a layered architecture. Services are made of components and components consist of objects. A service is a type of component. It is meant to be deployed independently
of the overall system. Examples of services include: checking a customer’s credit, calculating a monthly loan payment, or processing a mortgage application. In a service-oriented architecture, or SOA, services are loosely coupled
and interface with each other via a communication protocol over a network. SOA supports building distributed systems
that deliver services to other applications through the communication protocol. So,
let’s discuss distributed systems next. A distributed system is a system with multiple services located
on different machines that coordinate interactions by
passing messages to each other via a communication protocol such
as hypertext transfer protocol, also known as HTTP. Even though the services on a
distributed system operate on multiple machines, a distributed system appears to the
end-user as a single coherent system. A distributed system shares resources
such as hardware, software, and data. They are fault-tolerant, meaning if a node or
a service fails the system continues to run also implying that the system may change
during execution without service interruption. Multiple activities run
concurrently on a distributed system reducing latency and increasing throughput. Another property of distributed systems
is that they are scalable as the number of users increases. The computers
running the distributed system do not need to use the same kind of
hardware or operating systems. A distributed system may be made up of different
kinds of computers and programming languages. Now a node is any device on a
network that can recognize, process, and transmit data to
other nodes on the network. A distributed system consists of multiple interconnected nodes where the nodes are
running one or more services in an SOA. Distributed systems generally use one or more
of the following basic types of architecture: client-server, three-tier, peer-to-peer or microservices. These application architectures and their characteristics will be
discussed in another video. In this video, you learned that: Components are reusable, independent, replaceable,
extensible, encapsulated, and non-context specific. Component-based architecture is the decomposition
of the system into logical independent components. Services are made of components
and components consist of objects. Services are deployed independently
and can be reused by multiple systems. In an SOA services are loosely coupled and interface with each other via a communication protocol over a network. And lastly, distributed systems run on
multiple services on different machines and they appear to the end-user
as a single coherent system .