Welcome to architectural patterns in software! After watching this video, you will be able
to: Describe different software architectures
such as 2-tier, 3-tier, peer-to-peer, event-driven, and microservices. And provide an example of each architectural pattern. An architectural pattern is a repeatable solution
to a problem in software architecture. Patterns highlight common internal elements
and structures of a software system. Different architecture patterns may share
related characteristics. In this video, we will discuss 2-tier, 3-tier, peer-to-peer, event-driven, and microservices. However, there are many other patterns that
will not be covered in this video. These patterns include model-view-controller, message-broker, blackboard, pipe-filter, and controller-responder. The 2-tier architecture, also called client-server,
is a computing model in which the server hosts, delivers, and manages most of
the resources and services delivered to the client. The interface resides on the client machine
and makes requests to a server for data or services. This type of architecture usually has more than one client computer connected to
a server component over a network connection. A 3-tier architecture, or an n-tier architecture
where there are more than three layers, is the most common software architecture. The 3-tier architecture is composed of several
horizontal tiers that function together as a single unit of software. A tier only communicates with other tiers
located directly above and below it. Related components are placed within the same
tier. Changes in one tier do not affect the other
tier. The 3-tier architecture organizes applications
into three logical and physical computing tiers: the presentation tier, or user interface the middle tier which is usually the application
tier, is where business logic is processed the data tier, where the data is stored and
managed The peer-to-peer architecture, or P2P for
short, consists of a decentralized network of nodes that are both clients and servers. The workload is partitioned among these nodes. Peers make a portion of their resources directly
available to other network participants, without the need for central coordination by servers. Resources are things like processing power,
disk storage, or network bandwidth. Peers both supply and consume resources, in
contrast to the traditional client-server architecture in which the consumption happens
strictly by the client and the servers, supply the resources. Peer-to-peer architecture is useful for file
sharing, instant messaging, collaboration, and high-performance computing. An event is anything that results in a change
of state. An event can be thought of as an action that
is triggered by the end-user, such as a mouse click, or another part of the program. Event-driven architecture focuses on producers and consumers of events. Producers listen for and react to triggers
while consumers process an event. The producer publishes the event to an event
router. The router determines which consumer to push
the event to. The triggering event generates a message,
called an event notification, to the consumer which is listening for the event. The components in event-driven architectures
are loosely coupled making the pattern appropriate for use with modern, distributed systems. Microservices are an approach to building
an application that breaks its functionality into modular components called services. An application programming interface, also
called an API, is the part of an application that communicates with other applications. An API defines how two applications share
and modify each other’s data. APIs can be used to create a microservices-based
architecture. The API Gateway routes the API from the client
to a service. Orchestration handles communication between
services. Let’s discuss an example for each of these
patterns. A text messaging app is an example of a 2-tier
pattern. The client initiates a request to send a text
message through a server and the server responds by sending that message to another different
client. Another example of the 2-tier pattern, is
Database clients connecting with database servers. Many web apps use the 3-tier pattern. They use a web server to provide the user
interface, an application server to process user inputs, and a database server that handles
data management. The functions of these three types of servers
will be discussed in more detail in another video. Ride-sharing apps such as Lyft and Uber are
examples of event-driven patterns. The customer sends a notification that they
need a ride from a particular location to another location, and that event is routed
to a consumer. Cryptocurrencies such as Bitcoin and Ethereum
use a peer-to-peer pattern. Each computer in the blockchain acts as both
server and client. Finally, social media sites are composed of
microservices. A user has an account. That account can request different services
such as adding friends, targeted ad recommendations, and displaying content. Architectural patterns are not necessarily
mutually exclusive. In other words, two or more of these patterns
can be combined. For instance, a three-tiered architecture
can also be microservice-based, or a peer-to-peer architecture can also be event-driven. However, not all architectural patterns can
be used in conjunction with others. A peer-to-peer cannot also be two-tier because
a single machine in a peer-to-peer architecture represents both a client and a server whereas
a two-tier architecture separates the client from the server. It is up to the system architect to determine
which architectural patterns the software system should adhere to. In this video, you learned that: An architectural pattern is a repeatable solution
to an architectural problem A 2-tier pattern has a client and server. Text messaging apps use a 2-tier pattern. A 3-tier pattern has 3-tiers that interact
with each other. Web apps use a 3-tier pattern. An event-driven pattern has actions that are
produced and responded to by a consumer. Ride-sharing apps use an event-driven pattern. The peer-to-peer pattern consists of a decentralized
network of nodes that act as clients and servers. Cryptocurrency is an example of the peer-to-peer
pattern. Microservices are loosely coupled individual
services that behave as a single system and interact with the client. Communication is orchestrated among services. Social media sites are an example and finaly Two or more patterns can be combined in a
single system but some are not mutually exclusive