Welcome to production deployment components. After watching this video you will be
able to: Describe components commonly required for
deployment in a production environment. Describe the purpose of a firewall and a load
balancer. And differentiate between different types of servers. Let’s consider an n-tier architecture required
to deploy an application in a production environment and represent the infrastructure using a diagram. The top tier is the presentation tier which
contains the front-end client applications. All of the other tiers are located behind
a firewall. Firewalls and other components mentioned
in this diagram will be discussed in further detail later in the video. The next tier is the web tier which has a
web load balancer that distributes incoming traffic to several web servers. The tier below the web tier is the application
server tier. This tier contains an app load balancer or
a proxy server that routes traffic to different application servers. The bottom tier is the data tier that contains
the database server. A high availability replica of the database
is often used to ensure reliability. Some environments may have additional components
or tiers. Also not all of these components are necessary
for every deployment. For example, in some environments there might not be a need for
both application servers in addition to web servers. Now, let’s look at these components in further
detail. A firewall is a security device that monitors
traffic between networks. It permits or blocks requested data based
on a set of security rules. It acts as a barrier between networks to block
viruses, malware, and hackers from accessing the internal network. The purpose of load balancers is to distribute
network traffic efficiently amongst multiple servers, called a server farm, on a network. Load balancers are used to prevent server
traffic overload and are located between clients and the servers. A load balancer determines which servers are
capable of fulfilling those requirements in a manner that maximizes availability and responsiveness. Load balancers ensure that no one server is
overworked. They manage concurrent requests from clients
and return the correct data in a fast and reliable manner. Web and application servers are either software
or machines that provides services, resources, data, or applications to another computer
program, called the client. Servers store, process, and manage network
data, devices, and systems. A web server delivers content such as web
pages, files, images, and videos to a client. And a web server primarily responds to hypertext
transfer protocol requests coming from a web browser such as a user accessing a website. An app server is a server that runs business
logic and provides the application to the client rather than the client running the
app on their own machine. Its primary job is to enable interaction between
the end-user and the server-side application code. The application code represents the business
logic that determines how data can be created, stored, and changed. And that logic dictates things like transaction
results and what data is written to and retrieved from a database. Next a proxy server is an intermediate server that
sits in between two tiers and handles requests between those tiers. A proxy server can serve multiple purposes
such as load balancing, system optimization, caching, acting as a firewall, obscuring the
source of the request, encryption, scanning for malware, and more. And a proxy server can improve the efficiency,
privacy, and security of data flowing through a network. Finally, a database is a collection of related data,
stored on a computer that can be accessed in various ways. A database is usually controlled by software
called a database management system or DBMS. The DBMS controls a database by connecting
the database to users or other programs. The database server controls the flow and
storage of data. The DBMS connects the database server to an
application so data stored in the database can be retrieved or manipulated by the application. In this video you learned that: Common components needed for a production
environment include a firewall, a load balancer, web and application servers, proxy servers,
and database servers. A firewall is a security device that monitors
traffic between networks. A load balancer distributes network traffic
amongst servers. A web server delivers content such as web
pages, files, images, and videos to a client. An application server runs business logic
and provides the application to the client rather than the client running the app on
their own machine and finally, a database server stores and controls the
flow of data through a database management system.