Welcome to software design and modeling. After watching this video, you will be able
to: Compare and contrast the terms “structured
design” and “behavioral models.” Describe Unified Modeling Language (or UML)
and its advantages when designing software. And, discuss the purpose of an interaction
and a state transition diagram. Software Design is a process during which structural components and behavioral attributes of the software are
documented before it can be developed. One of the key activities of the design process
is modeling the software to express its design. This involves creating visual or diagrammatic representations
of the bigger software solution, and its sub-components, as well as the interactions between them. This can be done using simple flowcharts or
more standardized methods like UML. A software system can be construed in terms
of structural elements. Structured design conceptualizes a software problem into well-organized
smaller solution elements called modules and sub-modules. Structured design stresses organization in
order to achieve a solution. A well-structured design should contain modules that are cohesive
and loosely coupled. Cohesion means that all functionally related
elements are grouped together. Coupling is the communication between different
modules. For a system to be loosely coupled the modules should be weakly associated so
changes in one component have minimal effect on another. Loose coupling is an architectural
principle often used in service-oriented architectures and microservices based architectural patterns,
which will be discussed later in the module. The diagram shows a simplified example billing
system. Modules are arranged in a hierarchy and communicate with each other. The rectangles represent the modules and sub-modules. You can see that “billing” is the main
module, and the other rectangles are sub-modules to the main billing module. In
this example the sub-modules are “insurance verification,” “submit claim,” and “output
total.” The arrows represent the flow of the data
in the system. Behavioral models describe what a system does,
without explaining how it does it. The overall behavior of a system can be communicated
through behavior models. There are a number of different UML diagrams
that can be used to communicate the behavior of a system. We will discuss two such diagrams, a state transition diagram, and an interaction diagram. When developing a complex software system
with interconnected modules, it can be difficult to remember the relationships, behaviors,
and hierarchies among different elements. UML, which stands for Unified Modeling Language,
is a way to visually represent the architecture, design, and implementation of complex software
systems. UML is a standardized modeling language that can be used throughout development processes. UML diagrams can be divided into two classes:
either structural or behavioral. UML is programming language agnostic, so software
developers can readily interpret and apply it to their work no matter which language
they are developing in. There are several advantages of using UML
to communicate architecture, behavior, and structure with development teams. The biggest
advantage of UML diagrams is that they allow you to plan out features before any coding takes
place which saves time and money. Secondly, the diagrams can
be used to bring new team members or developers switching
teams to get up to speed quickly. Also, the diagrams can be used to facilitate
communication between technical and non-technical audiences more easily. And finally, having a visual representation of
the system allows developers to navigate the source code because they can see the relationships
among modules. So there are many types of UML diagrams but generally, UML diagrams can be
classified as either behavioral or structural. We will discuss behavioral models next and
then object oriented-design. The behavior of a system can be explained
and represented with the help of a UML diagram called a state transition diagram. The state
transition diagram is a collection of states and events that describes the different states
that a system has and the events which cause a change of state in the system. The diagram
shown is an example of a state transition diagram that models a patient going to see
a doctor at a clinic. The different states include “waiting,” “testing,” and “with the doctor.” The arrows represent
possible transitions from one state to another and names the event that triggers the transition. An interaction diagram is used to model the
dynamic nature of a software system. They help visualize objects and their relationships.
A sequence diagram, which is the type of interaction diagram shown here, displays the communication
between objects with respect to time. This example shows a patient making an appointment
in an online portal. This is another example of a behavioral UML diagram. In this video you learned that: Structured design breaks down a software problem
into well-organized smaller solution elements. Behavioral models describe the behavior of
the system without explaining how the system implements the behavior. Developing UML diagrams saves time and money
by helping developers quickly get up to speed on a project, plan features in advance of
coding, and help developers navigate source code easily. A state transition diagram is a behavioral
model containing a collection of states and events that describe the different states
of a system and the events which cause a change of state. And finally, an interaction diagram describes how interacting
objects communicate.