(Music) Hello and welcome to HTML Features. After watching this video, you will be able
to list some of the features of HTML5, describe the Document Object Model or DOM
tree, explain when you would use XML and when you
would use HTML. So, what are some HTML5 features? It provides the means to categorize web pages
into different sections, and includes tools for effective data management, drawing, video,
and audio. Facilitates the development of cross-browser
applications for the web and portable devices. Allows greater flexibility, permitting the
development of exciting and interactive websites. Helps to create a more engaging user experience.
Pages that are designed by using HTML5 can provide an experience similar to desktop applications. Allows for enhanced, multiple-platform development
by combining the capability of an application programming interface (API). By using HTML5, developers can create a modern
application experience that is uniform across platforms and devices. Here is an example of a document that conforms
to the syntax of HTML5. Documents that have the text or html media type
are parsed using HTML rules. If a document is transmitted with an HTML
content type, such as text or html, it is processed as an HTML document by web browsers. This example uses the following elements: The !DOCTYPE is a declaration tag that
represents the document type. The !DOCTYPE declaration is not an
HTML tag; it is an instruction to the web browser about what version of HTML the page is written
in. Although this declaration is not required,
it should be the first line of the HTML code if the developer decides to include it. The html tag is the root element of
this tree. It contains all of the other HTML elements,
except the !doctype tag. This example, contains two elements: head
and body. The head tag contains a title tag,
which contains the text “Sample page” in the example. The head element can contain the following
tags: title, scripts, style, style sheet links, meta information, browser support information and other initialization
functions. Finally, the body tag contains all content
that is displayed on the webpage. HTML user agents, commonly known as browsers,
parse the markup, turning it into a DOM (Document Object Model) tree. A DOM tree is an in-memory representation
of a document. DOM trees contain several kinds of nodes,
which include a DOCTYPE node, elements such as headers and paragraphs, text nodes, and
comment nodes. Here is an example of a document that conforms
to the XML syntax of HTML5. Extensible Markup Language (XML) documents
look similar to HTML documents, except they have an XML tag on the first line. In addition, with XML documents, the Content-type
must be specified as an XML media type such as application or xml. When a document is transmitted with an XML
content type, it is treated as an XML document by a web browser and an XML processor parses
the document. How do you decide whether to use HTML or XHTML
for developing web pages? Which of the two options you choose is related
to how you intend to use the application. For instance, are you using XSLT (Extensible
Style Sheet Language Transformations) to create other documents and resources from your web
pages? People are equally divided about whether to
use XHTML or HTML. Both HTML and XHTML use the same semantic
or tags. However, XHTML tags all need to be in lowercase, while the case used does not
matter in HTML. In addition, XHTML must be well-formed. Every element must have an end tag. All attributes
must have a value and double or single quotation marks must surround all attribute values. If an XML parser encounters a situation where
the syntax is not well-formed, it stops processing. In HTML, different case, unmatched quotation
marks, and non-terminated and uncontained elements are allowed and commonplace. In this regard, HTML syntax is less rigorous
than XHTML syntax. In this video, you learned that HTML5 includes features for categorizing sections
of web pages, and managing data, video and audio tools. Enables you to develop a single, cross-browser
application for the web and portable devices. and helps you to create a more engaging user
experience. The DOM tree is an in-memory representation
of a document. DOM trees contain nodes, which define the
type of document and its structure, such as headers and paragraphs, text nodes,
and comment nodes.