Welcome to Introduction to HTML. After watching this video, you will be able
to​ explain what Hyper Text Markup Language (HTML)
and HTML5 is, and ​ list the objectives of HTML5. The core HTML specification includes this
background information. HTML stands for Hypertext Markup Language,
which can be thought of as “the language of the Internet.” It is a markup language that was originally
designed for sharing scientific documents. Adaptations to HTML over the years made it
suitable to describe a number of other types of documents that can be displayed as web
pages on the Internet. HTML Elements are the building blocks of an
HTML page. The pieces of content that form the page are
assigned labels such as “paragraph,” “list,” and “table”. They are represented by tags. Browsers do not display the tags but use them
to render the content. HTML has been in continuous evolution since
it was introduced to the Internet in the early 1990s by CERN: The European Organization for
Nuclear Research and the IETF: Internet Engineering Task Force. The World Wide Web Consortium (W3C) made a
number of recommendations to the HTML standards over the years. New features were continually added, and specifications
changed over time. Initially, the Web Hypertext Application Technology
Working Group (WHATWG) worked on recommendations independently. Then, in 2007, W3C formed a working group
chartered to work with the WHATWG on the development of the HTML5 specification. The W3C published the specification under
the W3C copyright, while a version with a less restrictive license was kept on the WHATWG
site. Since 2007, both the W3C and WHATWG groups
worked together on the development of the HTML5 standard. The HTML5 specification, as drafted by W3C,
includes the following objectives: The HTML5 specification defines a single language
called HTML5 that can be written in HTML or XML syntax. The HTML5 specification defines a processing
model that can interoperate with earlier HTML implementations. HTML5 improves the markup for documents. HTML5 includes markup and APIs for idioms,
such as web storage, video, and audio content. When speaking about about creating web pages, developers may use
the terms HTML and HTML5 interchangeably. In general, the term HTML implies HTML5. Use
the full term HTML5 if you need to differentiate between versions, such as when discussing
features new to HTML5. In this course, HTML refers to HTML5, unless
specified otherwise. In this video, you learned: HTML stands for HyperText Markup Language,
a markup language that enables documents to be displayed as web pages on the Internet. Tags represent the elements of an HTML page
like paragraphs, lists, and tables. HTML5, the latest version, supports pages written in HTML or XML syntax, interoperation with earlier HTML versions,
and markup and APIs for web storage, video, and
audio content.